{
    "id": "d924bb3bb08b54b6745e14f717b1a86bf836c423",
    "title": "Why Stack Overflow Fails ? Preservation of Sustainability in Community Question Answering",
    "abstract": "Enormous amount of knowledge sharing occurs every day in Community Question Answering (CQA) sites, some of which became popular also among software developers and end users (e.g. Stack Overflow or Ask Ubuntu). In spite of their overall success, we can witness emerging problems in some CQA systems \u2013 an increasing failure and churn rate. In order to investigate this trend, we conducted a case study focused on Stack Overflow. At first, we evaluated a community perception that indicates that the emerging problems are highly related to the growing amount of low quality content created by undesired groups of users (i.e. help vampires, noobs and reputation collectors). Consequently, we supported these findings by reproducible data analyses of content and community evolution. In order to face the emerging problems, we suggest to provide the users with novel answerer-oriented adaptive support that, in addition, involves a whole community in question answering. These approaches represent an eminent attitude change in the existing question-answering support methods with the aim to preserve a long-term sustainability of CQA ecosystems. Keywords\u2014 H.3.4.e Question-answering systems; N.3.d Knowledge sharing; H.5.3.c Computer-supported cooperative work COMMUNITY QUESTION ANSWERING With increasing popularity of online communities gathered in knowledge sharing systems (e.g. Wikipedia, forums, and mailing lists), their new forms constantly emerge. One of the most popular among them is the concept of Community Question Answering (CQA) sites, such as Yahoo! Answers or Stack Overflow. Members of these communities can ask various questions, which cannot be usually answered easily by standard information retrieval tools [1], while other members can provide answers to them. Besides general CQA systems, various domain-specific communities appeared. Some of them gained high popularity among software developers and end users, such as Stack Overflow, which is even considered as one of the most successful CQA systems ever [2]. Stack Overflow is particularly effective for novices to obtain answers on conceptual or code review questions and, moreover, it can serve even as a supplement for official software documentation if it does not exist or is only very sparse [3]."
}