{
    "id": "a90cb717f0f4fa045ef74c87f966ccde93544ec2",
    "title": "Unsupervised Techniques for Audio Content Analysis and Summarization",
    "abstract": "This thesis explores unsupervised algorithms for broadcast audio analysis and summarization. For this work, the audio content analysis and summarization task will be to extract semantic structures from audio databases and organize them into a hierarchical presentation such as a table of contents for applications such as audio retrieval and browsing. Previous works on audio content analysis and summarization focus mainly on single audio content type, e.g. broadcast news only segments, music and songs structure analysis, commercials detection. As these works operate only on specific audio type, their applications are limited. This motivates us to propose a framework that can examine general audio broadcast database, e.g. radio broadcast or news channel broadcast. In this thesis, our main focus is to investigate unsupervised techniques to detect repeating patterns in large audio database and explore audio classification methods to assign repeating patterns into semantic classes with priori knowledge. Within each semantic class, existing segmentation techniques could be applied to further classify broadcast audio program into smaller semantic units such as individual news stories so that a table-of-content like audio content structure could be obtained. One novelty of our approach will be to use Acoustic Segment Model to simultaneously process speech and music segments without the need to first discriminate between them [1]. To find repeating patterns, we explore two methods: a) token strings representation of the audio segments and classical string repetition discovery techniques, and b) vector based suffix tree approach. To verify our research, we will examine our approach on public domain audio database such as the TRECVID and Channel News Asia. We will also apply large vocabulary continuous speech recognizer to generate basic transcription. These text transcriptions i will be used along with our proposed approach to find repeating patterns to index news stories and label detected commercials."
}