{
    "id": "5a6c2c698c4bca3f926f1fa3b1dd028146320aa5",
    "title": "Quantitative Proteomics: an Overview Profiling Protein Expression by Label-Free Quantitative Mass Spectrometry",
    "abstract": "Accurate quantification of the proteins that are detected or identified in proteomics experiments has become a primary goal of proteomics research. Quantitative information is essential in many areas of biological and clinical research, including for the detection of dynamic change in biological systems, for comparative analysis between samples and for generating boundary conditions in mathematical models of biological processes. Over the last few years a multitude of methods for quantitative proteomics have been described. In this presentation we will provide an overview of the currently available methods and their performance. Spe- cifically, we will discuss the following methods: Quantitative proteomics based on stable isotope labeling or tagging and tandem mass spectrom- etry; quantification based on LC-MS pattern matching with or without isotope tagging; absolute quantification via isotope labeled external standards and targeted (multiple reaction monitoring) mass spectrometry. We will also discuss issues common to all methods, including error anal- ysis and quantitative accuracy and current methods for the generation of isotope labeled reference peptides. The role of mass spectrometry (MS) in proteomics has evolved from being a technique used to identify proteins present in 2D gel spots to be the preferred method for quantitative analyses. Indeed, several strategies now exist that use MS to quantify proteins; it may be argued that the most influential of all them was based on isotope labelling using ICAT reagents, an approach that made the analytical biochemist appreciate the potential of MS for large-scale protein quantification. This early work inspired the development of other, perhaps more robust, methods for global protein quantification, most of which were also based on isotope labelling (prom- inent and popular examples include SILAC, iTRAQ and 18 O labelling). More recently, MS-based quantitative methods that do not require protein la- belling are also becoming popular. These label-free methods are based on how we compares across be compared. We implemented normalization procedures quantify precision close using labeling strategies. In order to investigate the limits of approach, we tested a sample set that consisted of 5 proteomes. Using a first Q-Tof spectrometer we able to independent data points to quantify the expression of 1000 in 5 normalization procedures powerful proteomics. The ability to monitor the subtle changes of protein abundances in re- sponse to specific perturbations of a biological system (e.g. cell signalling and differentiation, chemical stimulation, etc . . . ) plays an important in the identification of potential lead candidates as part of biomarker discovery programs. However, this task presents sizable difficulties in view of the overwhelming sample complexity and variability associated with cell extracts. In order to profile low abundance expression changes across cell extracts, we have developed MassSense, a software that provide com-prehensive peptide detection and segmentation analyses from data files of different MS platforms. The detection efficiency was determined by man-ual examination of a dense region of a representative peptide map with ion intensities distributed over 3 orders of magnitude. We evaluated the performance, reproducibility, statistical significance and dynamic range of peptide detection on a nanoLC-MS LTQ-Orbitrap mass spectrometer using scaled mixes of protein standard digests spiked in complex cell extracts. A linear response for all spiked proteins was observed over more than 2 orders of magnitude with detection limits of 1 fmole. We also evaluated the application of quantitative proteomics in two-dimensional nanoLC-MS/MS experiments for combined expression and identification analyses of human monoblastic U937 cells stimulated with phorbol ester. Several proteins including stathmin, hnRNPQ1\u20133, and ribophorin that showed differential expression and phosphorylation were correlated by western blot experiments. The capability to identify subtle abundance changes across different sample sets also provided unique advantages to monitor sites of modifications in complex cell extracts. This latter aspect will be exemplified for differential phosphoproteome analyses of J774 macrophages cell exposed to interferon- (cid:1) and for functional assays on histone acetyl transferases to locate precise sites of acetylation. Post-translational modifications provide functional switches and docking points within cellular protein networks. Functionally important post-trans-lational modifications may be dynamic or transient in nature to respond to signals requiring pathways to be up- or down-regulated. It is essential to be able to detect such modifications and to monitor them quantitatively in a dynamic fashion in order to be able to assess their regulatory and functional significance to protein networks. Accordingly, we have assessed and/or developed quantitative approaches for analysing post-translational hydroxylation of transcription factors involved in response to hypoxic stimuli. A comparison has been made between label-free and stable isotope labeling methods in conjunc- tion with MALDI-TOF/TOF-MS/MS and ESI-LTQ-Orbitrap analysis of mod-ification of Notch by the asparagine hydroxylase (FIH) that is involved in hypoxia inducible factor regulation. Quantitative analysis was an essential component of the study of this system in order to differentiate between asparagine hydroxylation and methionine oxidation of specific regions of Notch. As a consequence we have defined two specific sites of aspara- gine hydroxylation in Notch catalysed by FIH. We have also investigated a stable isotope labelling approach for quan- titative analysis of the post-translational phosphorylation in relation to regulation of the transcriptional activity of the Dioxin Receptor (DR). This presentation will describe these approaches as well as the discovery of other post-translational modifications of DR and phosphorylation sites on Newcastle disease virus proteins. Several recent works have used spectral counting as a method of label- free protein quantification in complex samples. The method is effective in shotgun proteomics experiments because higher abundance proteins will bring more distinct peptides into the detectable range and more abundant peptides will be sequenced multiple times despite efforts to minimize this. Most examples of this technique compare protein abundance within a small set of samples within one experiment. We apply spectral counting methods to large groups of datasets within the PeptideAtlas to set an approximate scale of protein abundance within specific sample types such as human plasma. We present statistical issues related to quantification by spectral counting in large groups of datasets and its utility for planning targeted proteomics experiments. The use of multidimensional capillary HPLC combined with tandem mass spectrometry has allowed high qualitative and quantitative proteome coverage of prokaryotic organisms. The determination of protein abundance change between two or more conditions has matured to the point that false discovery rates (FDRs) can be very low and for smaller proteomes coverage is sufficiently high to explicitly consider false negative error. Selected aspects of using these methods for global protein abundance assessments will be discussed. These include instrumental issues that influence the reliability of abundance ratios; a comparison of sources of non-linearity, errors, and data compression in proteomics and spotted cDNA arrays; strengths and weaknesses of spectral counting and other non-label approaches versus stable isotope metabolic labeling; and a discussion of four microbiological applications of global abundance anal- ysis at the protein level. The applications will include examples from ongoing studies of Porphyromonas gingivalis , Methanococcus maripalu- dis , Agrobacterium tumefaciens and Methylobacter extorquens AM1. The oral pathogen Porphyromonas gingivalis will be discussed as an example of an organism where a large percentage of the proteome differs in relative abundance between the intracellular and extracellular phenotype. Such a global analysis presents special challenges for existing approaches to normalization and multiple hypothesis testing, that typically assume only a small percentage of the proteome is changing with respect to relative abundance. Whole-cell quantitative proteomic analyses were conducted to investigate the change from an extracellular to intracellular lifestyle for P. gingivalis , a Gram-negative intracellular pathogen associated with pe- riodontal disease. Global protein abundance data for P. gingivalis strain ATCC 33277 internalized for 18 hours within human gingival epithelial cells and controls exposed to gingival cell culture medium were obtained at sufficient coverage to provide strong evidence that these changes are profound. A total of 385 proteins were over-expressed in internalized P. gingivalis relative to controls; 240 proteins were shown to be under- expressed. Production of several proteases, including the classical viru-lence factors RgpA, RgpB, and Kgp, was decreased. A separate validation study was carried out in which a 16-fold dilution of the P. gingivalis proteome was compared to the undiluted sample in order to assess the quantitative false negative rate (all ratios truly alternative), or FNR. Truly null (no change) abundance ratios from technical replicates were used to assess the rate of quantitative false positives (FPR) over the entire proteome. Similar studies of the methanogenic Archaeon M. maripaludis were carried out in which known dilutions of the entire proteome were treated as unknowns, and calculated abundance ratios were compared with the known true values. Spectral counting has poor statistical power charac-teristics (1-FNR) but favorable FPRs and FDRs. A "
}