{
    "id": "a896238775bcaeba2f3027e0f3cb791542f43c2b",
    "title": "Meets NLP : Collaboratively Constructed Semantic Resources",
    "abstract": "Community question-answering (QA) services, like Yahoo! Answers, contain a huge amount of information in the form of QA pairs accumulated over many years. The information covers a wide variety of topics on questions of great interests to and frequently asked by the users. To make this huge amount of information accessible by general users, research has been carried out to help users find similar questions with readily available answers. However, a better approach is to organize all relevant QA pairs around a given topic into a knowledge structure to help users better understand the overall topic. To accomplish this, our research leverages on appropriate topic prototype hierarchy automatically acquired from the Web or Wikipedia to guide the organization of the un-structured user-generated-contents in community QA sites. More specifically, we propose a prototype-hierarchy based clustering algorithm that utilizes the category structure information, article contents of Wikipedia, as well as distribution of relevant QA pairs around the topic based on a multi-criterion optimization function. This talk discusses our research to transform unstructured community QA resources into knowledge structure. Short Bio: Chua Tat-Seng the KITHC Chair Professor at the School of Computing, National University of Singapore (NUS). He was the Acting and Founding Dean of the School of Computing during 1998-2000. He joined NUS in 1983, and spent three years as a research staff member at the Institute of Systems Science (now I2R) in the late 1980s. Dr Chua\u2019s main research interest is in multimedia information retrieval, in particular, on the analysis, retrieval and question-answering (QA) of text and image/video information. He is currently working on several multi-million-dollar projects: interactive media search, local contextual search, and real-time live media search. His group participates regularly in TREC-QA and TRECVID video retrieval evaluations. Dr Chua has organized and served as program committee member of numerous international conferences in the areas of computer graphics, multimedia and text processing. He is the conference co-chair of ACM Multimedia 2005, CIVR (Conference on Image and Video Retrieval) 2005, and ACM SIGIR 2008. He serves in the editorial boards of:ACM Transactions of Information Systems (ACM), Foundation and Trends in Information Retrieval (NOW), The Visual Computer (Springer Verlag), and Multimedia Tools and Applications (Kluwer). He is the member of steering committee of CIVR, Computer Graphics International, and Multimedia Modeling conference series; and as member of International Review Panels of two large-scale research projects in Europe."
}