{
    "id": "974435ad374206b6107f47f63db707bfda7701f3",
    "title": "INCEpTION - Corpus-based Data Science from Scratch",
    "abstract": "In recent years, corpus-based data science has seen rapid adoption both in science and in industry. Developing corpusbased models for text mining from scratch has penetrated a huge number of application fields. This renders common approached to corpus annotation unscalable. Instead machineassisted annotation with a human-in-the loop is becoming crucial for the adoption of NLP by data scientists. INCEpTION [1] is a web-based annotation platform for machine-assisted annotation which provides such a tool. The platform targets users in any domain or application scenario that are in need of text that is annotated with specific categories and relations or linked to knowledge bases. It uses machine learning to provide annotation suggestions including activelearning driven guidance, thus improving annotator efficiency and quality. The modular architecture allows using different external annotation services to provide such suggestions. It supports entity disambiguation and linking, cross-document coreference, as well as fact linking using custom domainspecific RDF-based internal knowledge bases or using local or remote external knowledge bases through SPARQL. Annotation interoperability is ensured through the use of UIMA [2] as well as through the support of various annotation formats including CLARIN TCF [3]. At the level of the annotation scheme, the platform is compatible with the DKPro Core [4] type system facilitating interoperability with many of the NLP tools integrated within DKPro Core. INCEpTION is a multi-user platform. Users assume different roles (e.g. admin, project creator, normal user) on the platform as well as in individual projects (manager, annotator, adjudicator). User authorization can be delegated to an external mechanism users to be authenticated against infrastructure identity providers. This is essential for the deployment of the platform at the level of local or national infrastructures where it is used by users from many different organizations. Being a web-based tool these geographically distributed users can also conveniently collaborate on annotation projects within the platform. Further connectivity with other services is possible through a remote access API compatible with the OpenMinTeD AERO protocol1 that permits the automated setup and management of annotation projects. This allows projects to embed the annotation tool into a larger annotation campaign management"
}