{
    "id": "32b906ef005280c11bd5e7661b2e0bb225589834",
    "title": "Parallel Detection for Efficient Video Analytics at the Edge",
    "abstract": "Deep Neural Network (DNN) trained object detec-tors are widely deployed in many mission-critical systems for real time video analytics at the edge, such as autonomous driving, video surveillance and Internet of smart cameras. A common per-formance requirement in these mission-critical edge services is the near real-time latency of online object detection on edge devices. However, even with well-trained DNN object detectors, the online detection quality at edge may deteriorate for a number of reasons, such as limited capacity to run DNN object detection models on heterogeneous edge devices, and detection quality degradation due to random frame dropping when the detection processing rate is significantly slower than the incoming video frame rate. This paper addresses these problems by exploiting multi-model multi-device detection parallelism for fast object detection in edge systems with heterogeneous edge devices. First, we analyze the performance bottleneck of running a well-trained DNN model at edge for real time online object detection. We use the offline detection as a reference model, and examine the root cause by analyzing the mismatch among the incoming video streaming rate, the video processing rate for object detection, and the output rate for real time detection visualization of video streaming. Second, we study performance optimizations by exploiting multi-model detection parallelism. We show that the model-parallel detection approach can effectively speed up the FPS detection processing rate, minimizing the FPS disparity with the incoming video frame rate on heterogeneous edge devices. We evaluate the proposed approach using SSD300 and YOLOv3 (pre-trained DNN models) on benchmark videos of different video stream rates. The results show that exploiting multi-model detection parallelism can speed up the online object detection processing rate and deliver near real-time object detection performance for efficient video analytics at edge."
}