{
    "id": "ab32030ec991f37e4f3d36900e7c6060da948959",
    "title": "Probabilistic Analysis of Covering and Compromise in Node Capture Attacks",
    "abstract": "In this technical report, we analyze wireless sensor networks (WSN) under node capture and cloning attacks. Assuming that WSNs use symmetric keys, with key assignment based on a random key predistribution scheme, we provide extensive probabilistic analysis of WSNs under the attack.We define and characterize the following parameters: the numbe r of nodes an adversary needs to capture in order to disrupt WSN\u2019s functionality M , the number of compromised links\u03b1 due to the fact that an adversary has captured one node, the number of unit refreshment actions after one compromised node is revo ked \u03b2, the number of valid nodes with all the keys compromised\u03b3 and the number of cloned nodes deployed in the network\u03b4. I. PRELIMINARIES In this section, we state the assumptions about the physical WSN system to be analyzed and an adversary performing an attack. A summary of notation used is provided in Table I. A. Network Model Consider a WSN containing a set of N sensor nodes, randomly deployed with a density \u03c1 over an areaA. We assume WSNs use encrypted communication, with key assignment based on a random key predistribution scheme. Each node is randomly assigned a set of K different keys from a key pool P keys [1]. Two nodes are able to securely communicate if they are within each other\u2019s radio range and if they share at least one common key. Let N denote a set of N deployed nodes and Kt a set of symmetric cryptographic keys used for secure communicatio n in a WSN at timet. A WSN can be represented as a random graphG(N ,Kt), with a set of verticesN and a set of edges Kt. A pair of nodesni, nj \u2208 N within each other\u2019s radio range is able to securely communicate if and only if they share at least one common key, i.e., Kt,ni \u2229 Kt,nj 6= \u2205. Let C denote a set of captured nodes. If there exist a node ck \u2208 C, a set of keysKt,ck held by nodeck is considered to be compromised. Due to the fact that keys are being reused in this predistribution scheme, secure links between any tw o nodesni, nj \u2208 N using a keyki \u2208 Kt,ck are considered to be exposed to an adversary and hence insecure. B. Adversarial Model We consider one active adversary who is assumed to have limited resources and mobility. An adversary is able to acti vely listen on all of the exposed links throughout the WSN, captur e sensor nodes and access all the information stored within th em, such as cryptographic keys and measured data. Additionally , an adversary is capable of functionally cloning a captured n ode and deploying it in a WSN. TABLE I A SUMMARY OF NOTATION USED Symbol Definition \u03c1 Deployment density A Area of deployment Aused Area occupied by valid sensor nodes N Set of sensor nodes deployed in the network R Radio range of one sensor node N Number of nodes in the network P Size of key pool Kt Set of symmetric cryptographic keys at time t K Number of distinct keys assigned to each node Kt,ni Set of keys held by the valid node ni at time t Kt,ni\u2229nj Keys nodesni andnj have in common at timet C Set of compromised nodes KtC Set of keys held by compromised nodes at time t Kt,ck Set of keys held by the compromised node ck at time t M Number of nodes needed to be captured in order to compromise all the links in a WSN \u03bbi Number of nodes sharing the key ki \u03b1max Maximum number of compromised links due to existence of a captured nodeck \u03b1avg Average number of compromised links due to existence of a captured nodeck \u03b2 Number of unit refreshment actions after the revocation of one compromised key ck \u2208 C \u03b3 Number of valid nodes with all the keys compromised \u03b4i Maximum number of replicas of one captured node ci \u2208 C that can be deployed in a WSN using RM detection algorithm \u03b4 Maximum number of cloned nodes deployed in a WSN An adversary\u2019s goal is to gain control of a WSN. He achieves that goal by capturing enough nodes to be able to actively listen on all the links used in a WSN or by gathering all the distinct keys assigned to nodes in a WSN. II. A NALYSIS In this section we provide the analysis and characterizatio n of parametersM , \u03b1, \u03b2, \u03b3 and\u03b4. A. Derivation of Parameter M We start by defining the parameter M , the number of nodes an adversary should capture in order to disrupt networ k connectivity. In a WSN using a random key predistribution scheme [1], each nodeni \u2208 N is assigned a set of K keys. To be able to securely communicate, two nodes ni and nj \u2208 N should be"
}