{
    "id": "f0737cb6a6122b183f99cf04245962f090eb719b",
    "title": "Trust , Security , and Privacy in Parallel and Distributed Systems",
    "abstract": "IN modern computing paradigms, most computing systems, e.g., cluster computing, grid computing, cloud computing, the Internet, telecommunication networks, Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS), and Machine-to-Machine communication networks (M2M), are parallel and distributed systems. While providing improved expandability, manageability, efficiency, and reliability, parallel and distributed systems increase their security weaknesses to an unprecedented scale. As the system devices are widely connected, their vulnerabilities are shared by the entire system. Because tasks are allocated to, and information is exchanged among the system devices that may belong to different users, trust, security, and privacy issues have yet to be resolved. This special issue of the IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems (TPDS) highlights recent advances in trust, security, and privacy for emerging parallel and distributed systems. This special issue was initiated by Dr. Xu Li, Dr. Patrick McDaniel, Dr. Radha Poovendran, and Dr. Guojun Wang. Due to a large number of submissions, Dr. Zhenfu Cao, Dr. Keqiu Li, and Dr. Yang Xiang were later invited to the editorial team. Dr. Xu Li was responsible for coordinating the paper review process. In response to the call for papers, we received 150 effective submissions, out of which 24 are included in this special issue after rigorous review and careful revision, presenting an acceptance ratio of 16 percent. The accepted papers are divided into three groups, covering issues related to trust, security, and privacy, respectively. The first group includes five papers on trust issues. The paper \u201cVerifying Keys through Publicity and Communities of Trust: Quantifying Off-Axis Corroboration\u201d proposes to achieve robust verification with a novel theoretical model, called Public Data, which treats operational deployments as communities of trust and makes them the verification substrate. The paper \u201cTrustworthy Operations in Cellular Networks: The Case of PF Scheduler\u201d proposes a trustworthy version of the proportional fair scheduler for cellular networks to mitigate the effects of DoS attacks, where malicious UEs disrupt service by intelligently faking their CQI and ARQ feedback reports. The paper \u201cTraffic Pattern-Based Content Leakage Detection for Trusted Content Delivery Networks\u201d addresses content leakage during video streaming and proposes a content-leakage detection scheme that is robust to the variation of video length by exploiting the relation between video length and content similarity. The paper \u201cEnabling Trustworthy Service Evaluation in Service-Oriented Mobile Social Networks\u201d proposes a trustworthy service evaluation system to enable service review sharing in mobile social networks. It identifies three service review attacks and develops sophisticated security mechanisms to deal with these attacks. The paper \u201cReDS: A Framework for Reputation-Enhanced DHTs\u201d presents a framework for enhancing lookups in redundant Distributed Hash Table (DHTs) in peerto-peer network by tracking how well nodes service lookup requests and study the collaborative identification and removal of bad lookup paths in a way that does not rely on the sharing of reputation score. The second group contains six papers addressing privacy issues. The paper \u201cCertificateless Remote Anonymous Authentication Schemes for Wireless Body Area Networks\u201d presents a pair of light-weight authentication protocols, based on an efficient and secure certificateless signature scheme, to enable remote wireless body area network users to anonymously enjoy healthcare service. The paper \u201cLocaWard: A Security and Privacy Aware Location-Based Rewarding System\u201d proposes a locationbased rewarding system for location-based services, where mobile users can collect and redeem location-based tokens for beneficial rewards. A security and privacy aware rewarding protocol is developed for the system, along with correctness and completeness proofs. IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PARALLEL AND DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS, VOL. 25, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2014 279"
}