{
    "id": "a8d616322e4e76ab72662fb2d5aa16176eb6f5bf",
    "title": "A Principled Incentive Mechanism to Promote Economic Viability of Mini-Grids",
    "abstract": "The urgent need for universal electrification and the high cost of grid expansion highlight the crucial role of mini-grids in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). These systems harness technologies such as cost-effective renewable energy to provide reliable and affordable electricity to remote, off-grid communities. However, the existing mini-grids lack economic viability in the long run. To address this challenge, mini-grid demand stimulation programs have been developed to stimulate electricity demand by incentivizing the adoption of appliances, particularly for productive purposes. At present, however, there exists no principled analysis to evaluate how incentives for appliance adoption could be structured to benefit customers while contributing to the economic viability of mini-grids. In this paper, we develop a principled incentive mechanism to enhance the economic viability of mini-grids in SSA by stimulating the productive use of electricity. The mini-grid developer offers a range of appliances for rent at affordable rates and competitive electricity pricing to stimulate electricity demand from customers. The customers determine which appliances to rent based on the prices announced by the developer and the utility associated with the appliances. We formulate an optimization problem for the customers and mini-grid developers. Leveraging the formulated problem, we show that customers with limited computational resources can efficiently determine the appliances to rent. We further develop an algorithm for the developer to estimate how the customers will react to the electricity price and rental prices, enabling efficient calculation of both price signals. We show that the proposed approach leads to a win-win situation between the developer and customers. Customers create non-negative profits by adopting productive use appliances, and the developer stimulates the electricity demand which is better aligned with the renewable energy generation. We evaluate the proposed approach using a rural village with ten appliances whose load profiles are obtained from a real-world dataset."
}