{
    "id": "3c15a0bf4e4970d3071f272be0d34a4e2271a6a8",
    "title": "The Origins of Common Sense in Humans and Machines",
    "abstract": "People impose structure on raw percepts, filling the world with objects, agents, events, and properties. This reasoning develops early: by their first birthday, infants can determine features of objects such as number and motion (Spelke, 1990; Wynn, 1992), construe agents\u2019 actions as goal-directed (Woodward, 1998; Gergely & Csibra, 2003), and distinguish helpers from hinderers (Hamlin, Wynn, & Bloom, 2007). Agents, objects, events, properties \u2013 these are the building blocks of meaning and common sense that allow even young children to rapidly understand and interact with novel scenes. Despite recent great strides in several domains (e.g., Devlin, Chang, Lee, & Toutanova, 2019; Silver et al., 2016), artificial systems cannot yet understand and act on the world in a human-like manner, and do not yet perform basic commonsense reasoning at the level of even young children (Lake, Ullman, Tenenbaum, & Gershman, 2017). What are these AI systems missing? Is it certain learning mechanisms, initial primitives, motivations, or the right environments and curricula? We focus on young children\u2019s common sense as a step towards building general machine common sense: by understanding the origins of common sense in humans, we hope to understand how to recapitulate it in machines. In turn, by looking at the successes and failures of machines, we can make scientific progress towards understanding the initial state and learning mechanisms of human intelligence. This approach has spurred much interest across various fields of cognitive science and artificial intelligence, and investment from agencies that hope to design artificial systems with common sense. The organizers of this workshop are all members of a large, multi-site DARPA grant aimed at developing machine common sense inspired by the capabilities of young children, and represent a diverse set of teams and approaches to meeting this challenge. The origin, development, and engineering of common sense is a broad problem that is studied in many different ways by many different members of the Cognitive Science community. We aim to use this workshop as a forum to discuss this problem with the broader community by considering theories and approaches for understand and building common sense, presenting experimental research that probes the foundations of common sense in people, and reporting on progress made by the DARPA project teams and others on building artificial agents with infant-like commonsense reasoning capabilities. We have brought together leading researchers from cognitive psychology, developmental psychology, machine learning, neuroscience, and robotics, all of whom share a strong background and interest in the cognitive systems underlying common sense in humans, or in the effort to engineer commonsense reasoning into artificial agents in ways inspired by human reasoning. More specifically, the workshop will be a forum for addressing the following inter-related key questions:"
}