{
    "id": "4864e88f489163d03d0d7903db6f78f56aa1baef",
    "title": "Performance Prediction of String Recognizers in the Context of Classifier Combination",
    "abstract": "Pattern classifiers are of three types based on the amount of information contained in their outputs.Type I classifiers output the label of a single class having the best match with the input pattern. Type II classifiers produce a ranking of all classes, and type III classifiers associate a measure of the confidence with each ranked output class. Since the output of the type III classifiers contains more information, it is expected that combination of such classifiers can produce superior recognition results. However, most combination methods described in the literature deal with type I and II classifiers. This is because normalization of confidence scores across classifiers is challenging. Methods that have combined type III classifiers have done so largely by training on very large data sets and using neural network combination schemes. There do not exist any combination methods in the literature that are applicable when there is a paucity of training data, as is the case in string pattern recognition. String patterns are composed of a sequence of atomic patterns. For example, a word is a sequence of character images, and a spoken word is a sequence of phonemes. The number of classes of atomic patterns is usually small while the number of classes of string patterns is relatively large. Consequently, large sets for training string pattern recognizers are rarely available and may not even include representatives of all string classes. Our research will focus on three aspects of string classifier combination: 1. We propose to develop a methodology for combination of type III handwritten word recognizers where the lexicon of word choices represents the set of all string pattern classes. This will entail normalization of scores produced by handwritten word recognizers and derivation of the probability of matching input word images to the lexicon words, string pattern. Our approach will be to use the performance statistics of the string classifier on the training data of atomic patterns to derive normalized scores to be associated with the string choices. 2. We will develop a methodology that uses the derived probability values to predict the performance of a classifier on a (dynamically generated) lexicon. This will enable the determination of the optimal order in which classifiers should be cascaded. Typically, the best performing recognizer is used initially on the full lexicon, and other recognizers are used on the pruned lexicon. 3. String edit distance is one measure of relationships between lexicon strings that can be used to improve classifier combination. For example, if a classifier is known to perform better when distances between lexicon strings are in particular range, the weight given to the classifier\u2019s decision during combination can be modified accordingly. We propose to use similar information about interclass relationships in our string classifier combination methodology."
}