{
    "Title": "Meta-Reflection: A Multi-Agent Framework for Enhancing LLM Self-Evaluation Through Collaborative Feedback",
    "Idea": "This idea proposes a multi-agent framework called Meta-Reflection, where multiple LLM agents collaboratively evaluate and refine each other's outputs. Each agent specializes in a different aspect of the task (e.g., logical reasoning, factual accuracy, contextual understanding), and they engage in a structured debate to identify inconsistencies, biases, and errors in their responses. The framework leverages a 'meta-reflector' agent that synthesizes the feedback from all agents and generates a refined output. This approach not only improves the accuracy and stability of LLM self-evaluation but also introduces a novel mechanism for collaborative problem-solving among LLMs.",
    "Thinking": "This idea is inspired by the theories of 'Propose New Hypotheses' and 'Scientific Paradigm Shift.' The multi-agent framework introduces a new hypothesis that collaborative feedback among specialized agents can lead to more accurate and stable self-evaluation in LLMs. The paradigm shift lies in moving from a single-agent reflection model to a multi-agent collaborative model, which fundamentally changes how LLMs handle self-evaluation. The framework also aligns with 'Design and Improve Existing Methods' by integrating new technologies (multi-agent systems) to enhance existing reflection methods.",
    "Rationale": "The rationale for this idea is that current LLM self-evaluation methods are limited by the biases and inconsistencies of a single agent. By introducing multiple agents with specialized expertise, the framework can identify and correct errors that a single agent might overlook. This collaborative approach mirrors human problem-solving, where diverse perspectives often lead to better outcomes. The meta-reflector agent ensures that the final output is coherent and accurate, addressing the key bottleneck of unstable self-evaluated feedback identified in the target paper."
}