{
    "id": "e0e39125186a0d438e1e5884f2dc774da16666b4",
    "title": "Fine-Grained Legal Argument-Pair Extraction via Coarse-Grained Pre-training",
    "abstract": "Legal Argument-Pair Extraction (LAE) is dedicated to the identification of interactive arguments targeting the same subject matter within legal complaints and corresponding defenses. This process serves as a foundation for automatically recognizing the focal points of disputes. Current methodologies predominantly conceptualize LAE as a supervised sentence-pair classification problem and usually necessitate extensive manual annotations, thereby constraining their scalability and general applicability. To this end, we present an innovative approach to LAE that focuses on fine-grained alignment of argument pairs, building upon coarse-grained complaint-defense pairs. This strategy stems from two key observations: 1) In general, every argument presented in a legal complaint is likely to be addressed by at least one corresponding argument in the defense. 2) It\u2019s rare for multiple complaint arguments to be addressed by a single defense argument; rather, each complaint argument usually corresponds to a unique defense argument. Motivated by these insights, we develop a specialized pre-training framework. Our model employs pre-training objectives designed to exploit the coarse-grained supervision signals. This enables expressive representations of legal arguments for LAE, even when working with a limited amount of labeled data. To verify the effectiveness of our model, we construct the largest LAE datasets from two representative causes, private lending, and contract dispute. The experimental results demonstrate that our model can effectively capture informative argument knowledge from unlabeled complaint-defense pairs and outperform the unsupervised and supervised baselines by 3.7 and 2.4 points on average respectively. Besides, our model can reach superior accuracy with only half manually annotated data. The datasets and code can be found in https://github.com/thunlp/LAE."
}