{
    "id": "679b1c81bf676d0389e1d4317bee630f250d3399",
    "title": "A Survey on Medical Large Language Models: Technology, Application, Trustworthiness, and Future Directions",
    "abstract": "With the advent of Large Language Models (LLMs), medical artificial intelligence (AI) has experienced substantial technological progress and paradigm shifts, highlighting the potential of LLMs to streamline healthcare delivery and improve patient outcomes. Considering this rapid technical progress, in this survey, we trace the recent advances of Medical Large Language Models (Med-LLMs), including the background, key findings, and mainstream techniques, especially for the evolution from general-purpose models to medical-specialized applications. Firstly, we delve into the foundational technology of Med-LLMs, indicating how general models can be progressively adapted and refined for the complicated medical tasks. Secondly, the wide-ranging applications of Med-LLMs are investigated across various healthcare domains, as well as an up-to-date review of existing Med-LLMs. The transformative impact of these models on daily medical practice is evident through their ability to assist clinicians, educators, and patients. Recognizing the importance of responsible innovation, we discuss the challenges associated with ensuring fairness, accountability, privacy, and robustness. Ethical considerations, rigorous evaluation methodologies, and the establishment of regulatory frameworks are crucial for building trustworthiness in the real-world system. We emphasize the need for ongoing scrutiny and development to maintain high standards of safety and reliability. Finally, we anticipate possible future trajectories for Med-LLMs, identifying key avenues for prudent expansion. By consolidating these insights, our review aims to provide professionals and researchers with a thorough understanding of the strengths and limitations of Med-LLMs, fostering a balanced and ethical approach to their integration into the healthcare ecosystem."
}