{
    "id": "1eddb2aa4861ea5156d7767c52bbafeb956adcc2",
    "title": "Discourse analysis of asynchronous conversations",
    "abstract": "A well-written text is not merely a sequence of independent and isolated sentences, but instead a sequence of structured and related sentences. It addresses a particular topic, often covering multiple subtopics, and is organized in a coherent way that enables the reader to process the information. Discourse analysis seeks to uncover such underlying structures, which can support many applications including text summarization and information extraction. This thesis focuses on building novel computational models of different discourse analysis tasks in asynchronous conversations; i.e., conversations where participants communicate with each other at different times (e.g., emails, blogs). Effective processing of these conversations can be of great strategic value for both organizations and individuals. We propose novel computational models for topic segmentation and labeling, rhetorical parsing and dialog act recognition in asynchronous conversation. Our approaches rely on two related computational methodologies: graph theory and probabilistic graphical models. The topic segmentation and labeling models find the high-level discourse structure; i.e., the global topical structure of an asynchronous conversation. Our graphbased approach extends state-of-the-art methods by integrating a fine-grained conversational structure with other conversational features. On the other hand, the rhetorical parser captures the coherence structure, a finer discourse structure, by identifying coherence relations between the discourse units within each comment of the conversation. Our parser applies an optimal parsing algorithm to probabilities inferred from a discriminative graphical model which allows us to represent the structure and the label of a discourse tree constituent jointly, and to capture the sequential and hierarchical dependencies between the"
}