{
    "id": "c094bdf2fcd49e851d6df4d303e0d6c416ee4659",
    "title": "Targeting COVID-19 and Human Resources for Health News Information Extraction: Algorithm Development and Validation",
    "abstract": "Background Global pandemics like COVID-19 put a high amount of strain on health care systems and health workers worldwide. These crises generate a vast amount of news information published online across the globe. This extensive corpus of articles has the potential to provide valuable insights into the nature of ongoing events and guide interventions and policies. However, the sheer volume of information is beyond the capacity of human experts to process and analyze effectively. Objective The aim of this study was to explore how natural language processing (NLP) can be leveraged to build a system that allows for quick analysis of a high volume of news articles. Along with this, the objective was to create a workflow comprising human-computer symbiosis to derive valuable insights to support health workforce strategic policy dialogue, advocacy, and decision-making. Methods We conducted a review of open-source news coverage from January 2020 to June 2022 on COVID-19 and its impacts on the health workforce from the World Health Organization (WHO) Epidemic Intelligence from Open Sources (EIOS) by synergizing NLP models, including classification and extractive summarization, and human-generated analyses. Our DeepCovid system was trained on 2.8 million news articles in English from more than 3000 internet sources across hundreds of jurisdictions. Results Rules-based classification with hand-designed rules narrowed the data set to 8508 articles with high relevancy confirmed in the human-led evaluation. DeepCovid\u2019s automated information targeting component reached a very strong binary classification performance of 98.98 for the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC-AUC) and 47.21 for the area under the precision recall curve (PR-AUC). Its information extraction component attained good performance in automatic extractive summarization with a mean Recall-Oriented Understudy for Gisting Evaluation (ROUGE) score of 47.76. DeepCovid\u2019s final summaries were used by human experts to write reports on the COVID-19 pandemic. Conclusions It is feasible to synergize high-performing NLP models and human-generated analyses to benefit open-source health workforce intelligence. The DeepCovid approach can contribute to an agile and timely global view, providing complementary information to scientific literature."
}