{
    "Title": "Retrieval-Augmented Multi-Agent Code Generation with Contextual Memory",
    "Idea": "This idea integrates retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) into the MapCoder framework by equipping each agent with a contextual memory module. The memory module stores relevant code snippets, problem descriptions, and solutions from past tasks, which can be retrieved and reused during code generation. For example, the recalling agent can query the memory module to find similar problems and their solutions, while the debugging agent can retrieve past fixes for common errors. The memory module is updated dynamically based on the outcomes of each task, ensuring that the system learns from its experiences. This approach enhances the system's ability to generalize across tasks and programming languages, reducing the need for extensive fine-tuning.",
    "Thinking": "This idea is inspired by **Laudan’s problem-solving model**, which emphasizes the importance of integrating interdisciplinary knowledge to discover new problems and solutions. Retrieval-augmented generation has been successful in natural language tasks, but its application to multi-agent code generation is underexplored. By combining RAG with multi-agent systems, we address the challenge of knowledge reuse and generalization in code generation. The contextual memory module is a creative leap that leverages the strengths of both retrieval-based and generative approaches, enabling the system to learn from past experiences and improve over time.",
    "Rationale": "Retrieval-augmented generation improves the system's ability to handle complex and diverse programming tasks by leveraging past knowledge. The contextual memory module ensures that the system can generalize across tasks and programming languages, reducing the need for extensive fine-tuning. This approach addresses a key limitation in current code generation systems, which often struggle with knowledge reuse and generalization. The integration of RAG and multi-agent systems is a novel contribution that has the potential to significantly improve performance on competitive programming benchmarks, making it a strong candidate for a best paper award."
}