{
    "Title": "Cross-Lingual Multi-Agent Code Generation with Unified Semantic Representation",
    "Idea": "This idea extends the MapCoder framework to support cross-lingual code generation by introducing a unified semantic representation layer. The representation layer captures the semantic meaning of code snippets and problem descriptions in a language-agnostic format, enabling agents to generate code in multiple programming languages. For example, the planning agent can generate a high-level plan in the unified representation, which is then translated into specific programming languages by the coding agent. This approach improves the system's ability to handle cross-lingual tasks, such as translating code between languages or generating code in multiple languages from a single problem description.",
    "Thinking": "This idea is inspired by **Kitcher’s unified theory of science**, which emphasizes the importance of developing interdisciplinary theoretical frameworks. The unified semantic representation layer is a creative leap that leverages the strengths of semantic parsing and cross-lingual transfer learning. By capturing the semantic meaning of code snippets and problem descriptions in a language-agnostic format, we address the challenge of cross-lingual code generation. This approach pushes the boundaries of multi-agent systems by enabling them to handle tasks that require knowledge of multiple programming languages.",
    "Rationale": "Cross-lingual code generation is a challenging task that requires a deep understanding of multiple programming languages. The unified semantic representation layer improves the system's ability to handle cross-lingual tasks by capturing the semantic meaning of code snippets and problem descriptions in a language-agnostic format. This approach addresses a key limitation in current code generation systems, which often struggle with cross-lingual tasks. The novelty and practical impact of this idea make it a strong candidate for a best paper award at top conferences."
}