{
    "Title": "Personalized Privacy-Preserving Language Models with User-Controlled Data Sharing",
    "Idea": "This idea proposes a personalized privacy-preserving framework for language models (LMs) that allows users to control the level of data sharing with the cloud-based large LM. The framework introduces a user-controlled data sharing mechanism where the small LM, deployed locally, interacts with the user to determine which parts of the context can be shared with the large LM. The small LM uses a combination of natural language understanding and user preferences to selectively share non-sensitive information while obfuscating or withholding sensitive data. The large LM processes the shared information and generates a response, which is then personalized by the small LM based on the user's preferences. This approach ensures that users have full control over their data while still benefiting from the capabilities of the large LM.",
    "Thinking": "This idea is grounded in Laudan’s problem-solving model, which focuses on addressing user-centric problems by integrating interdisciplinary knowledge. The anomaly here is the lack of user control in current privacy-preserving LM frameworks, which often make decisions about data sharing without user input. By introducing a user-controlled data sharing mechanism, this idea addresses this anomaly and provides a more user-centric solution. Additionally, Pierce’s hypothetical deduction method is used to hypothesize that user-controlled data sharing can improve both privacy and user satisfaction. The rationale is that giving users control over their data can increase trust and adoption of privacy-preserving AI systems.",
    "Rationale": "The rationale for this idea is the increasing demand for user-centric privacy solutions in AI systems. Current methods for privacy-preserving LMs often make decisions about data sharing without considering user preferences, which can lead to a lack of trust. This framework addresses this issue by introducing a user-controlled data sharing mechanism that empowers users to decide what information is shared. The potential impact is significant, as it enables the deployment of privacy-preserving LMs in applications like personal assistants and social media, where user trust is critical."
}