{
    "id": "d935d89bea28ae4203c8d63631590aeee21c8530",
    "title": "Gene Ontology Concept Recognition using Cross-Products and Statistical Methods",
    "abstract": "In biomedical domain, the Gene Ontology (GO) has evolved as the standard for providing a controlled and structured vocabulary of terms describing attributes of genes and gene products, but it is still challenging to automatically locate evidence to GO terms in text. The majority of previous approaches to the automatic recognition of GO terms follow the bag-of-words model for GO term representation. Is this paper, we introduce a novel approach using the GO crossproducts as the GO term representation to recognize GO terms in text and show that it is complementary to a state-of-the-art method based on bag-of-words model. Introduction Gene Ontology (GO) is being widely used for functional analysis in biology and bioinformatics. Since it is time-consuming to manually associate its terms with gene products, there is a need for automating the annotation (1). While there have been many efforts in developing automatic tools for GO terms recognition, this task is still a challenging problem. We present here a novel method for recognizing GO terms in text using GO cross-products and statistical methods. One key challenge for recognizing GO terms in text is that many of them do not appear literally in biomedical texts. To address this, many previous approaches for GO term recognition represent a GO term as the bag of its component words. However, this representation can suffer low precision because it does not take into account of the syntactic and semantic relations between the component words in a GO term. To deal with this issue, we propose to utilize the cross-product extensions of Gene Ontology, which are explicit, logical representations of the compositional relations implied in GO terms (2). The GO Cross-Product database is an effort of normalizing the GO by explicitly stating the definitions of compositional classes in a form that can be used by logical reasoners. Such a definition consists of mutually exclusive cross-products, many of which reference other OBO Foundry candidate ontologies for such entities as chemical entities, proteins, biological qualities !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 1 Corresponding author"
}