{
    "id": "30adb68b84e6974027610aecced25fc62a825ab1",
    "title": "Why Interpretable Causal Inference is Important for High-Stakes Decision Making for Critically Ill Patients and How To Do It",
    "abstract": "the effects of and They there are patients for high-dimensional observational causal inference analysis, and randomized controlled trials cannot ethically be conducted. However, mechanistic knowledge is available, including how drugs are absorbed into the body, and the combination of this knowledge with the limited data could potentially suf\ufb01ce \u2013 if we knew how to combine them. In this work, we present a framework for interpretable estimation of causal effects for critically ill patients under exactly these complex conditions: interactions between drugs and observations over time, patient data sets that are not large, and mechanistic knowledge that can substitute for lack of data. Our framework incorporates pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics with interpretable matching methods to adjust for confounders such as patients\u2019 drug response, medical history, and demographic variables. We apply this framework to an extremely important problem affecting critically ill patients, namely the effect of seizures and other potentially harmful electrical events in the brain (called epileptiform activity \u2013 EA) on outcomes. EA is a key indicator of whether the patient will suffer long term severe neurological disability or death. Given the high-stakes involved, and the high noise in the data, interpretability is critical for troubleshooting such complex problems. Interpretablity of our matched groups allowed neurologists to perform chart review to verify the quality of our causal analysis. For instance, our work indicates that a patient who experiences a high level of seizure-like activity (75% high EA burden), and is untreated for a six-hour window, has, on average, a 16.7% increased chance of adverse outcomes such as severe brain damage, lifetime disability, or death. We were also able to show that patients with mild-but-long-lasting EA (average EA burden \u2265 50%) have their risk of an adverse outcome increased by 11.2%. This information is essential to any neurologist who treats critically-ill patients."
}