{
    "id": "18f45c222639bf755f9341185bb08df819453d7c",
    "title": "Search Methods for Sufficient, Socially-Aligned Feature Importance Explanations with In-Distribution Counterfactuals",
    "abstract": "Feature importance (FI) estimates are a popular form of explanation, and they are commonly created and evaluated by computing the change in model con\ufb01dence caused by removing certain input features at test time. Two standard explanation metrics are Suf\ufb01ciency , where only the top-k most important tokens are kept, and Comprehensiveness , where only the top-k important tokens are removed. In this paper, we study several under-explored dimensions of FI-based explanations, providing conceptual and empirical improvements for this form of explanation. First, we advance a new argument for why it can be problematic to remove features from an input when creating or evaluating explanations: the fact that these counterfactual inputs are out-of-distribution (OOD) to models implies that the resulting explanations are socially misaligned . The crux of the problem is that the model prior and random weight initialization in\ufb02uence the explanations (and explanation metrics) in unintended ways. To resolve this issue, we propose a simple alteration to the model training process, which results in more socially aligned explanations and metrics. Second, we compare among \ufb01ve approaches for removing features from model inputs. We \ufb01nd that some methods produce more OOD counterfactuals than others, and we make recommendations for selecting a feature-replacement function. Finally, we introduce four search-based methods for identifying FI explanations and compare them to strong baselines, including LIME, Integrated Gradients, and random search. On experiments with six diverse text classi\ufb01cation datasets, we \ufb01nd that the only method that consistently outperforms random search is a Parallel Local Search that we introduce (as measured in terms of both standard FI metrics and our socially aligned metrics). Improvements over the second best method are as large as 5.4 points for Suf\ufb01ciency and 17 points for Comprehensiveness. 1"
}