{
    "id": "56e49fdefdd2d2e52881a1537592036c5385e2a8",
    "title": "Performance Evaluation of Butterworth Filter for Signal Denoising",
    "abstract": "A signal in the communication system is the information containing part which is to be process, but during the processing of the signal some noise is added in the signal and signal becomes noisy. This is now mandatory to eliminate this noise from the signal to get information from the signal. In this paper, a wavelet filter based on Butterworth IIR filter is designed for the signal analysis. Butterworth low pass IIR filter has limited application in signal denoising. It has maximally flat response in the pass band and, therefore, the filter has distorted output. It makes Butterworth filter little applicable in communication systems and other signal analysis technique. The newly designed matched wavelet filter presents a new concept for better signal analysis and disturbance detection in the communication systems. The limitation of Butterworth low pass filter in signal denoising and other applications can be eliminated by using this matched wavelet filter. We have improved performance in signal filtering by using Butterworth wavelet filter. This wavelet filter finds applications in signal analysis, communication system and image compression with a lot of other fields. I. Definition of wavelet Wavelets are mathematical functions that cut up data into different frequency components, and then study each component with a resolution matched to its scale. They have advantages over traditional Fourier methods in analyzing the situations where the signal contains discontinuities and sharp spikes. Fig. 1: Signal representation with different frequencies at a time instant. Wavelets were developed independently in the field of the quantum physics, electrical engineering, and seismic geology. Interchanges between these fields during the last ten years have led to many new wavelet applications such as image compression, turbulence, human vision, radar, and earthquake prediction. The fundamental idea behind wavelets is to analyze according to scale. Indeed, some researchers in the wavelet field feel that, by using wavelets, one is adopting a whole new mindset or perspective in processing data. Wavelets [1] are functions that satisfy This idea is not new. Approximation using superposition of functions has existed since the early 1800's, when Joseph Fourier discovered that he could superpose sines and cosines to represent other functions. However, in wavelet certain mathematical requirements and are used in representing data or other functions. analysis, the scale that we use to look at data plays a special role. Filters are the electronic circuits which have the functionality to remove the unwanted frequency components \u2026"
}