{
    "id": "85a3d1281dbae98cecc1306d3b3ca4ffaa79dfa8",
    "title": "MKPS: a multivariate polynomial scheme for symmetric key-establishment in distributed sensor networks",
    "abstract": "Privacy is a critical service in node-to-node communications when sensor networks are deployed in adversarial environments. However, providing this service is a nontrivial task because of the lack of infrastructure and node limitations. Existing techniques distribute secret keys to the network users through a trusted third party or using computationally-complex public-key methods. An alternative approach is pre-distributing keying material to the nodes prior to the network deployment. Exploiting the mathematical properties of symmetric polynomials, we propose a multivariate key pre-distribution scheme (MKPS) in this paper. In this scheme, using uniquely assigned IDs, shares of d-variate polynomials are stored into the memory of every sensor. After the network deployment, every two neighbor nodes at the unit Hamming distance of each other establish exactly d-1 common keys without any interaction with a third party in the network. The final secret key used by these nodes is a symmetric combination of all the common keys. We will show that this feature significantly improves the security of the MKPS over previous schemes. The proposed method is in the category of threshold schemes, i.e., it remains perfectly secure up to the capture of a certain fraction of sensor nodes. We also propose a location-aware MKPS in which, by taking advantage of the location information, perfect connectivity is achieved. The new location-aware scheme is a cell-based method in which nodes are randomly deployed within hexagonal cells. Nodes are unaware of their exact locations. Nevertheless, they know the coordinates of their residing cells. One MKPS is used to secure communications within every cell and one to secure communications between cells. This location-based scheme significantly improves the resiliency of the network against the node capture."
}