{
    "id": "0e1fe83ea2da8a0f81ccdc5aab10fcd86ec3ae95",
    "title": "Network compression via network memory: fundamental performance limits",
    "abstract": "To my family, the people whose endless love and support made this work possible. iii ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS Foremost, I would like to thank my research advisor Prof. Faramarz Fekri for his continuous encouragement, advice, and guidance. We started this journey more than five years ago when Dr. Fekri shared with me the basic idea of what today forms the basis of this Ph.D. dissertation. It took a lot of effort and dedication for us to reach where we stand today. Dr. Fekri has kept company as an extremely understanding, kind-hearted, and supportive research advisor along this journey. I could not have been any luckier to have such wonderful committee members on (in alphabetical order). I have received invaluable feedback on my research from all of them that has greatly improved the quality of my work and its presentation. They have also been extremely supportive of my future research career plans. I got to know Dr. Barry through the coding theory class I took in 2009. Since then I have been always inspired by his teaching style and sharp thinking and have learnt a great deal from him in the occasional discussions that we have had. I have known Dr. Bloch since last year when he moved to Atlanta. During our occasional chats, I have found him very kind and also supportive. Dr. McLaughlin has been involved with my research for the past several years. His excellent insights on the connections between the theory and practice as well as the presentation of my work has resulted in great improvement of my this work to this date. The practical motivation behind the theoretical developments in my Ph.D. dissertation were formed by ideas from Dr. Sivakumar. Ever since we started this project, he has given us excellent feedback in terms of potential applications of the work. Finally, I have known Dr. Weiss since 2009 when I took a class on probability iv theory with him. I have always enjoyed how he relates deep mathematical theories to real-world practical applications. I would like to thank many of the past and present members of center for signal and information processing (CSIP) at Georgia Tech for making a friendly and scientific work place. In particular, I would like to thank my research collaborator Mohsen Sardari. Our stimulating discussions on a daily basis played a major role in identifying the direction of our research. I also enjoyed his \u2026"
}