{
    "id": "6bb5487dc23b69c451c1fdeb864cd1b53429adca",
    "title": "Phylogenetic Analysis and Virulence Characteristics of Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus ST45 in China: a Hyper-Virulent Clone Associated with Bloodstream Infections",
    "abstract": "Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ST45 is epidemic worldwide. This study contributed to the awareness of the Chinese hyper-virulent MRSA ST45 strains and served as a timely reminder of its wide dissemination of clonotypes. Further, we provide novel insights for prevention from the perspective of bloodstream infections. ST45-SCCmec V is a clonotype deserving special attention in China, and we performed genetic and phenotypic analyses for the first time on it. ABSTRACT Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) sequence type 45 (ST45) was rarely found in China. This study was conducted to trace the transmission and evolution of emerging MRSA ST45 strains in mainland China and explore its virulence. A total of 27 ST45 isolates were included for whole-genome sequencing and genetic characteristic analysis. Epidemiological results showed that MRSA ST45 isolates were often obtained from blood, primarily originated in Guangzhou, and carried diverse virulence and drug resistance genes. Staphylococcal cassette chromosome mec type IV (SCCmec IV) dominated in MRSA ST45 (23/27, 85.2%). ST45-SCCmec V was located on a phylogenetic clade distinct from the SCCmec IV cluster. We selected two representative isolates, MR370 (ST45-SCCmec IV) and MR387 (ST45-SCCmec V), and performed hemolysin activity, a blood killing assay, a Galleria mellonella infection model, and a mouse bacteremia model, as well as real-time fluorescence quantitative PCR. MR370 was proved to have extreme virulence in the phenotypic assays and at the mRNA level compared with ST59, ST5, and USA300 MRSA strains. MR387 was comparable to USA300-LAC on the phenotype and was verified to have higher expression of scn, chp, sak, saeR, agrA, and RNAIII than USA300-LAC. The results emphasized the extraordinary performance of MR370 and the good potential of MR387 in virulence causing bloodstream infection. Meanwhile, we conclude that China MRSA ST45 showed two different clonotypes, which may be widespread in the future. The entire study is valuable as a timely reminder and reports virulence phenotypes of China MRSA ST45 for the first time. IMPORTANCE Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ST45 is epidemic worldwide. This study contributed to the awareness of the Chinese hyper-virulent MRSA ST45 strains and served as a timely reminder of its wide dissemination of clonotypes. Further, we provide novel insights for prevention from the perspective of bloodstream infections. ST45-SCCmec V is a clonotype deserving special attention in China, and we performed genetic and phenotypic analyses for the first time on it."
}