{
    "id": "d310a91e10d6814b8f21349d09369b6cc3c8726f",
    "title": "Beyond Pattern Variance: Unsupervised 3-D Action Representation Learning With Point Cloud Sequence",
    "abstract": "This work pays the first research effort to address unsupervised 3-D action representation learning with point cloud sequence, which is different from existing unsupervised methods that rely on 3-D skeleton information. Our proposition is built on the state-of-the-art 3-D action descriptor 3-D dynamic voxel (3DV) with contrastive learning (CL). The 3DV can compress the point cloud sequence into a compact point cloud of 3-D motion information. Spatiotemporal data augmentations are conducted on it to drive CL. However, we find that existing CL methods (e.g., SimCLR or MoCo v2) often suffer from high pattern variance toward the augmented 3DV samples from the same action instance, that is, the augmented 3DV samples are still of high feature complementarity after CL, while the complementary discriminative clues within them have not been well exploited yet. To address this, a feature augmentation adapted CL (FACL) approach is proposed, which facilitates 3-D action representation via concerning the features from all augmented 3DV samples jointly, in spirit of feature augmentation. FACL runs in a global\u2013local way: one branch learns global feature that involves the discriminative clues from the raw and augmented 3DV samples, and the other focuses on enhancing the discriminative power of local feature learned from each augmented 3DV sample. The global and local features are fused to characterize 3-D action jointly via concatenation. To fit FACL, a series of spatiotemporal data augmentation approaches is also studied on 3DV. Wide-range experiments verify the superiority of our unsupervised learning method for 3-D action feature learning. It outperforms the state-of-the-art skeleton-based counterparts by 6.4% and 3.6% with the cross-setup and cross-subject test settings on NTU RGB+D 120, respectively. The source code is available at https://github.com/tangent-T/FACL."
}