{
    "id": "b79ddd2611d5884fcf17812cadd15b0a704060ad",
    "title": "Combinations of bacterial cultures, exogenous enzymes, and yeast-based feed additives and their impact on ruminal microbiome",
    "abstract": "Abstract Our objective was to evaluate the effects of bacteria (Lactobacillus animalis, Propionibacterium freudenreichii, Bacillus lichenformis, Bacillus subtilis, and Enterococcus faecium), enzymes (amylase, hemicellulose, and xylanase), and yeast as additives on the ruminal microbiome. We hypothesized that inclusion of bacteria, enzymes, and yeast would impact butyric bacterial populations. Eight fermenters were arranged in a duplicated 4 \u00d7 4 Latin square with the following treatments: 1) control without additives (CTRL); 2) bacterial culture and enzyme blend (EB); 3) bacterial culture and enzyme blend with a live yeast and yeast culture blend (EBY); and 4) double dose of bacterial culture and enzyme blend and the yeast products blend (2X). We conducted four fermentation periods of 10 d each, with the last 3 d for collection of samples. Overall, 64 solid and liquid samples were analyzed by amplification of the V4 region of bacterial 16S rRNA. Data were analyzed with R and SAS. The following orthogonal contrasts were used: 1) ADD\u2014the control compared to all treatments with additives (CTRL vs. EB, EBY, and 2X); 2) YEAST\u2014treatment without yeast compared to those with yeast (EB vs. EBY and 2X); and 3) DOSE\u2014the single dose of enzymes, bacteria, and yeast compared to the doubled dose (EBY vs. 2X). Family Prevotellaceae was more abundant when additives were added (ADD). Additives (ADD) also increased relative abundance of Prevotellaceae Ga6A1 and YAB2003 in solid fraction, and of Prevotellaceae Ga6A1 and two members of Lachnospiracea family in liquid fraction. Yeast (YEAST) decreased relative abundance of Succinivibrionaceae UCG-001 and increased abundance of Ruminococcus and Prevotellaceae UCG-003 in solid fraction. Doubling the dose of enzymes and microbial additives (DOSE) decreased the abundance of Succiniclasticum in solid fraction and Selenomonadaceae in the liquid. Molar proportion of butyrate was highly correlated with abundance of Prevotellaceae Ga6A1 in solid (r = 0.68) and liquid fraction (r = 0.79), and with Unclassified Lachnospiraceae in liquid (r = 0.70). Our results demonstrate that YEAST decreases abundance of succinate synthesizing bacteria, while DOSE decreases abundance of bacteria that metabolize succinate into propionate. Combined bacteria, enzymes, and yeast increase the relative abundance of specific genera primarily within the Prevotellaceae family, which may explain the increase in butyrate molar proportion observed with ADD."
}