{
    "id": "a009099829c846f630e4fe1b0f36ce58dc8cb4a3",
    "title": "Autonomous Oropharyngeal-Swab Robot System for COVID-19 Pandemic",
    "abstract": "The outbreak of COVID-19 has led to the shortage of medical personnel and the increasing need for nucleic acid testing. Manual oropharyngeal sampling is susceptible to inconsistency caused by fatigue and close contact could also cause healthcare personnel exposure and cross infection. The innate deficiency calls for a safer and more consistent way to collect the oropharyngeal samples. Therefore a fully autonomous oropharyngeal-swab robot system is proposed in this paper. The system is installed in a negative pressure chamber and carrying out a standardized sampling process to minimize individual sampling differences. A hierarchical throat detection algorithm is presented and multiple modality sensory information are fused to safely and accurately localize the optimum sampling location. Also, a force/position hybrid control method is adopted to ensure both accurate sampling and subject comfort. The robot system described in this paper can safely and efficiently collect the oropharyngeal sample, providing a scalable solution for large-scale Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) Molecular sample collection for various respiratory diseases. Note to Practitioners\u2014During the COVID-19 pandemic, pre-diagnostic is essential for both prevention and treatment. Existing approaches, including nasal swab and oropharyngeal-swab, require extensive medical worker training and increase the chance of cross-infection. The robot system introduced in this paper can take oropharyngeal-swab samples from subjects with minimum human intervention, reducing medical worker exposure, alleviating the work pressure of medical staff, and speed up large quantity of sampling plan. The robot will first guide the subject into position with vocal commands, and automatically detect the optimum sampling location with a real-time machine learning algorithm. A dedicated control strategy aiming at minimizing discomfort and uniforming sample quantity is then applied to safely collect nucleic samples from the throat. Eventually, while the swab is being stored in the culture medium, a disinfection process is carried out simultaneously to prepare the robot for the next subject. Preliminary clinical trials show that our robot system can safely and accurately collect samples from subjects."
}