{
    "id": "b09d50ee96765506df6987b7ae32a9bec1f4819d",
    "title": "Mathematics and Computation in Music 2009: John Clough Memorial Conference (review)",
    "abstract": "adjusted to the darkness, and on the somber projected video I could just make out the shine on the forehead of a young black boy with a pale, disembodied ivory child\u2019s hand placed diagonally across his breast. The boy is seated beside a window with alternating hues behind its panes. My ears gradually blended out the sounds from beyond the heavy velvet entry curtain. Concentrating on the audio track I heard something like bongo slaps, arrhythmic, paced far from each other. The illuminated \u201croom\u201d in front of me became lighter, colors behind the window changed, and a colored wall appeared. Gradually, the crowd left, exposing directly opposite the filmed boy a very dimly lit, pale ivory ceramic statue of a diminutive girl extending her hand. The room had by now almost emptied\u2014ah, against the wall, two chairs under a faint spotlight. On the projected window, unfocused scenes take place between black-outs. What was happening below the window? If I sat on the installed chair, would I be accessory to it? The bongo slaps became louder and faster, an occasional something reminding of a distant, filtered lion\u2019s roar instrument added. Seated, I could now look around and suddenly perceive what had been there all along: directly opposite me a real window, high on the wall, with colors painted on the closed wall behind it. The window, too, was spotlighted, as was I on my seat. I must remain outside the window, I can enter neither the wall window in front of me nor the film window to my left. To my right, the dimly lit girl. I could only depend on the acoustic signals and changing colors to orient myself in the goings-on of this space. Faster and more rhythmically, the drum was hit, struck, punched; very loud and almost rhythmic, on the edge of violence. No, that is no longer a lion\u2019s roar, and it\u2019s so soft\u2014 that\u2019s a child\u2019s whimpering, isn\u2019t it? The hitting stopped, the whimpering took on a whining animal tone. Then the images behind the window expanded beyond the boundaries of the window, taking up the whole projection space of the wall. Buildings in blue, exploding clouds, then the slow bongo slaps resume. A man\u2019s head without eyeballs, it is quiet. The projected window disappears, the boy disappears. We were left in darkness. With its continually changing colors, sounds, and lighting, Andro Wekua\u2019s installation By the Window (8 min 30 sec, 2008, Gladstone Gallery) uses varying media to direct my attention, my perception, and to evoke emotions. Through the masterful and exigent use of them, he transports the notions evoked from the relationship between the individual sitting on the chair and the projected individual, toward inclusion of the outsider of another color standing in the room. The closed window on the wall heightens consciousness of being enclosed, closed off, in the room, while through the sequence of sound and enlargement of the images a larger community and its doom were brought to mind. In Mr. Wekua\u2019s piece, I initially analyzed the sounds, their nature, their potential meaning. But, through the density of the combined medial input (not the density of the sound, for with the exception of the \u201capotheosis,\u201d it remained minimal), I was overwhelmed by multiple narratives, none of which was conclusive. The sound and image design were reminiscent of David Lynch. At times, the music narrative dominated, at times the visual; at times they were in tandem, at times the room was black or silent. By conjuring its narratives without the use of spoken or graphic words, the work managed to keep the narratives in a non-verbal part of the brain, together with the emotional reactions to the non-verbal (atavistic) audio and video inputs, all of which maintained a precarious balance between their forces. The over-activation of input and inconclusive narratives caused me to shudder at the end. It was not a shudder of catharsis; I was shaken. Not surprisingly, I noted this year a dearth of works that were joyous, playfully interactive, or exquisitely breathtaking. 2009 has been a year of gloom. But here it hardly matters, for I have been rubbing elbows with art: with Henri Matisse, Joan Mir\u00f3, and Joan Mitchell; with Paul Klee, Yves Klein, and Gustav Klimt; and with the new acquaintances Francisco Ruiz de Infante, Hanna Schwarz, and Andro Wekua. I missed Brad Pitt, but there\u2019s nothing for the music critic to complain about this year. Art is finding a complex way to marry music as its equal partner, and I\u2019m happy to dance at all their weddings\u2014the squeaky, the silent, and the somber."
}