{
    "id": "94b25a63a2bd422ef5c4864a8a4cb12726e21886",
    "title": "Proceedings of the 6th international conference on Information processing in sensor networks",
    "abstract": "It is my great pleasure to welcome you to the Sixth International Symposium on Information Processing in Sensor Networks (IPSN 2007). The symposium continues its tradition of excellence with a vibrant program this year that combines two high quality tracks; the Information Processing track and the Sensor Platforms track (SPOTS). The goal is to bring together researchers and practitioners from industry and academia to address the gamut of challenges from theoretical foundations of information processing in sensor networks to new hardware architecture and platform prototypes. I sincerely thank the program chairs Leonidas Guibas, William Kaiser, Ralph Kling, and Matt Welsh. We owe the quality of this year's IPSN/SPOTS program to their dedicated efforts. Among other new features, this year's program presents a more unified treatment of symposium tracks, exemplified, for instance, in maintaining a common page-length across both IPSN and SPOTS paper. \n \nThe main event is preceded by two workshops and a tutorial. The International Workshop on Wireless Sensor Network Architecture, co-organized by Jack Stankovic and Tian He, explores new directions in sensor network architecture and essential principles that guide sensor network software design. The Workshop on Data Sharing and Interoperability on the World-wide Sensor Web, organized by Mark Hansen and Suman Nath, focuses on tools to manage, share, analyze, and understand the sensory data and their interoperability implications. Finally, a hands-on tutorial on Wireless Sensing Systems for Acoustic and Seismic Monitoring is organized by Lewis Girod and Vinayak Naik. I sincerely thank all the organizers of these events for greatly enriching the diversity of the symposium. This year's IPSN is also co-located with the TinyOS Technology Exchange. Thanks to Phil Levis and other members of the TinyOS community for making this possible. \n \nIn addition to paper presentations, the symposium features a poster and demonstration session. Special thanks to Phil Levis, the Demo Chair, and Haiyun Luo, the Poster Chair, for organizing it. The symposium also includes, for the first time, an Extreme Sensing Competition. Special thanks to Kamin Whitehouse, the Competition Chair, for masterminding and organizing this exciting new event."
}