{
    "id": "73718c8c60d3a3efa7999fa55b3ea8bb3cacd36c",
    "title": "Real-time and embedded technology and applications symposium (RTAS '05)",
    "abstract": "RTAS \u201905 is the eleventh in the series of annual meetings devoted to the integration of academic and industrial perspectives on theory and practive of real-time and embedded systems. This year, RTAS was held in San Francisco, California, on March 7-10. Recent previous meetings were held in Montreal (2004), Washington, D.C. (2003), San Jose, California (2002), Taipei, Taiwan (2001). The choice of location this year was motivated by co-location with the Embedded Systems Conference (ESC), an important annual industry forum and trade show. RTAS participants were encouraged to visit ESC exhibits in order to get a firsthand understanding of the direction in which the industry evolves and to further foster interactions between academia and industry. Tarek Abdelzaher (University of Virginia), David Sharp (Boeing), and Greg Bollella (Sun Microsystems) were the General co-Chairs of the symposium. Oleg Sokolsky (University of Pennsylvania), Seongsoo Hong (Seoul National Univeristy), Douglas Stuart (Boeing), and Christopher Gill (Washington University) served as Program co-Chairs. The symposium was sponsored by the IEEE Computer Society. The National Science Foundation provided support for student participation in the form of travel grants. The area of real-time and embedded systems is currently enjoying a resurgence of interest. Practically all major conferences in the area are receiving record number of submissions. Researchers are increasingly exploring connections with other areas, such as sensor networks and ubiquitous computing. Two major forces are shaping this burst of activity. On the one hand, embedded systems are permeating every aspect of our lives, from aircraft and cars to mobile phones and microwaves, embedded systems. These embedded systems operate under resource and timing constraints that vary greatly with each application domain and require different approaches to satisfy these constraints. On the other hand, multimedia applications, which emerged as a dominant source of Internet traffic, are a driving force in research on adaptation and dynamic resource management under soft real-time constraints. These two very different forces ensure that the spectrum of topics addressed by researchers in the real-time and embedded areas is very broad."
}