{
    "id": "da0fa5a906a62f25a2ea50837b3eac92cbfa844c",
    "title": "Named Data Networking (NDN) Project 2011 - 2012 Annual Report",
    "abstract": "Contents Executive Summary 1 1 Architecture Overview 2 1. Executive Summary This annual report of the Named Data Networking (NDN) project summarizes our second year research achievements and future plans. Chapter 1 briefly reviews the NDN architectural model. Chapter 2 gives an overview of our research plan, describes the milestones reached through our second year's effort. Chapter 3 gives a detailed description of the activities and findings in each of the project's research areas. The heart of the Internet architecture is a simple, universal network layer (IP) which implements all the functionality necessary for global interconnectivity. This \" thin waist \" was the key enabler of the Internet's explosive growth but one of its design choices is the root cause of today's Internet problems. The Internet was designed as a communication network so the only entities that could be named in its packets were communication endpoints. Recent growth in e-commerce, digital media, social networking, and smartphone applications has resulted in the Internet primarily being used as a distribution network. Distribution networks are fundamentally more general than communication networks and solving distribution problems with a communications network is complex and error prone. NDN retains the Internet's hourglass architecture but evolves the thin waist to allow the creation of completely general distribution networks. The core element of this evolution is removing the restriction that packets can only name communication endpoints. As far as the network is concerned, the name in an NDN packet can be anything \u2014 an endpoint, a chunk of movie or book, a command to turn on some lights, etc. This simple change allows NDN networks to use almost all of the Internet's well tested engineering properties to solve not only communication problems but also digital distribution and control problems. PARC's CCN project demonstrated this architectural evolution was feasible. Using CCN as a starting point, the NDN project's research challenge is to evolve it into architectural framework capable of solving real problems, particularly in application areas poorly served by today's Internet. Solving real problems forces architectural details to be filled in and, most importantly, verifies and shapes the architectural direction. We believe that an architectural research effort should be fundamentally experimental in nature. Design specifics cannot be derived from an intellectual exercise nor can validation be done through greenhouse testbed demonstrations. The Internet design was matured via actual usage through early deployment and our research plan follows the Internet's \u2026"
}