{
    "id": "97b07738e259fe3982f8ea85817a8c57374d3313",
    "title": "Logical Particle Filtering",
    "abstract": "In this paper, we consider the problem of filtering in rela- tional hidden Markov models. We present a compact representation for such models and an associated logical particle filtering algorithm. Each particle contains a logical formula that describes a set of states. The algorithm updates the formulae as new observations are received. Since a single particle tracks many states, this filter can be more accurate than a traditional particle filter in high dimensional state spaces, as we demonstrate in experiments. Consider an agent operating in a complex environment, made up of an un- known, possibly infinite, number of objects. The agent can take actions and make observations of the state of the world, and it knows a probabilistic model of how the state changes over time as a result of its actions and of how the observations are generated from the states. How can it eciently estimate the underlying state of the environment? Filtering is the problem of predicting a distribution over the underlying environment state given a history of the agent's actions and observations. This problem is pervasive in AI: a dialogue system has to estimate the belief state of the user; an oce-assistant must track the states and relationships among people, meetings, and projects; a household robot has to track the locations of furniture, the state of the dishes in the dishwasher, and the desires of the humans in its house. At their root, these problems are controlled hidden Markov models (HMMs) or POMDPs. The standard techniques for filtering in such models require enu- meration of the individual states of the environment. This quickly becomes in- tractable, and is impossible in infinite worlds. Particle filtering methods (1) make approximations by representing a small set of likely states. They can be exe- cuted online with constant computation per time step and can be used to track arbitrary state spaces, but reliable estimates in large domains require a very large number of particles. This problem can often be ameliorated by using Rao- Blackwellization, in which the filtering distribution is decomposed into two fac- tors, one that is sampled and one that is computed exactly. Rao-Blackwellization has been eectively applied in both propositional (2) and relational (3) state rep- resentations. In both cases, however, a finite universe of objects must be known in advance. Quantified logical expressions are a powerful method for using short de- scriptions to name large (possibly infinite) sets of states. When the underlying model of uncertainty in the domain is nondeterministic rather than probabilistic"
}