{
    "id": "72d6986fd81db4801befda7369294bf233653e79",
    "title": "Surgical repair of ruptured sinus of Valsalva aneurysm: 13\u2010year single\u2010center experience",
    "abstract": "To the Editor, \u201cSurgical repair of ruptured sinus of Valsalva aneurysm: 13\u2010year single center experience\u201d by Vivek Jaswal et al. gave many sound details regarding the surgical intervention of ruptured sinus of Valsalva aneurysm by securing its vital components. The specifics were intriguing, and the writers\u2019work was commensurate with the findings. Nonetheless, it is noteworthy that the study stressed the fundamentals of open surgical treatment, which is being superseded by the increasingly prevalent percutaneous technique. Consequently, we consider that the study should have included a comparison model of percutaneous intervention. In addition, as a center experience, the study did not give comprehensive diagnostic measures of ruptured sinus of valsalva aneurysm. Which specification determines the accuracy of the anatomical evaluation before surgery. Thus, it is urged that diagnostic procedures be included in the study, since they are required as a confirmatory test and in determining the scope of an examination of co\u2010conditions. The remark regarding intraoperative treatment for aortic valve repair and annuloplasty/replacement was another element that we found to be rather concerning. In which it was notably observed that replacement was favored over repair, which may not have been the best course of action. However, we are also somewhat perplexed as there was no mention of postoperative medication for the replacement of aortic valves with synthetic valves and, if necessary, posttransplantation artificial pacemakers. Considering the topic of whether patients were monitored to ensure they were taking the necessary dosage to prevent further difficulties from emerging, owing to the insertion of a synthetic valve or the transplant of an artificial pacemaker, as required. We would really appreciate clarification regarding the exclusion of the aforementioned inquisition. As its disclosure would assist to set a higher bar for analyzing any correlations to the occurrence of postoperative infections or a shift in the mortality rate. As each of the aforementioned aspects contributes to the foundation of a study that elucidates each feature in greater detail, we believe that focusing on them could improve the retrospective analysis of the event. A ruptured sinus of Valsalva aneurysm (SOVA) or one with intracardiac anomalies such as ventricular septal defect or severe aortic valve regurgitation requires surgery. Unruptured but symptomatic or expanding SOVAs may need surgery. Although SOVA repair recommendations are not yet published, aortic root aneurysm repair guidelines are universally accepted. According to the 2010 American Guidelines on Thoracic Aortic Disease, surgical repair should be considered in those with aneurysms > 5.5 cm, > 5 cm in those with bicuspid valves, >4.5 cm in the presence of connective tissue disease, or a growth rate of > 0.5 cm/year. All surgical repairs involve cardio pulmonary bypass and cardioplegic arrest. There are three basic operating approaches: (1) through the aortic root by an aortotomy, (2) through the cardiac chamber in which the aneurysm broke, or (3) a dual approach through an aortotomy plus an incision into the affected cardiac chamber."
}