{
    "Title": "Cross-Domain Watermarking for Multi-Language Code Generation",
    "Idea": "This idea explores the application of watermarking techniques across multiple programming languages and domains. While current watermarking methods are often tailored to specific languages or tasks, this approach proposes a unified framework that can be applied to code generation in various languages, such as Python, Java, and C++. The framework leverages language-agnostic features, such as abstract syntax trees (ASTs) and control flow graphs (CFGs), to embed watermarks in a way that is consistent across languages. The detection mechanism uses machine learning models trained on multi-language datasets to identify watermarked code, regardless of the language in which it is written. This approach also includes a robustness evaluation to ensure that the watermark remains detectable when code is translated or adapted across languages.",
    "Thinking": "This idea is inspired by the 'Define New Scientific Problems' theory (Kuhn’s paradigm theory, Laudan’s problem-solving model). The target paper focuses on watermarking for code generation but does not address cross-domain applicability. By exploring watermarking across multiple languages, this idea identifies a new problem and proposes a solution that integrates interdisciplinary knowledge from programming language theory and machine learning. The 'Scientific Paradigm Shift' theory (Kuhn’s theory of scientific revolutions) also plays a role, as it encourages developing new conceptual frameworks for watermarking that transcend traditional language-specific approaches.",
    "Rationale": "Code generation models are increasingly being used across multiple programming languages, but existing watermarking methods are often limited to specific languages. By developing a cross-domain watermarking framework, this idea addresses a significant gap in the field and enables the detection of machine-generated code in a wide range of applications. The use of language-agnostic features ensures that the watermarking process is consistent and robust across languages, while the machine learning-based detection mechanism enhances accuracy. This approach has the potential to significantly expand the applicability of watermarking techniques, making it a strong candidate for a best paper award at top conferences.",
    "Keywords": [
        "cross-domain watermarking",
        "multi-language code generation",
        "abstract syntax trees",
        "control flow graphs",
        "machine learning",
        "robustness evaluation"
    ]
}