{
    "Title": "Watermarking as a Service: A Cloud-Based Framework for Detecting Machine-Generated Code",
    "Idea": "This idea proposes a cloud-based framework that provides watermarking as a service (WaaS) for detecting machine-generated code. The framework allows developers to easily integrate watermarking into their code generation pipelines by providing APIs for embedding and detecting watermarks. The framework leverages distributed computing resources to ensure scalability and efficiency, enabling real-time watermarking and detection for large-scale applications. Additionally, the framework includes a dashboard that provides insights into the detection process, such as the likelihood that a given piece of code is machine-generated. The framework also supports customizable watermarking strategies, allowing developers to tailor the watermarking process to their specific needs.",
    "Thinking": "This idea is inspired by the 'Design and Improve Existing Methods' theory (Laudan’s methodological improvement model, Hacking’s experimental system theory). The target paper improves watermarking by entropy thresholding, but it does not address the practical challenges of integrating watermarking into real-world applications. By proposing a cloud-based framework, this idea enhances the usability and scalability of watermarking methods, making them more accessible to developers. The 'Propose New Hypotheses' theory (Pierce’s hypothetical deduction method) also plays a role, as it encourages creative leaps in applying watermarking techniques to new contexts, such as cloud computing.",
    "Rationale": "While watermarking methods have shown promise in detecting machine-generated code, their practical implementation remains challenging. By developing a cloud-based framework, this idea addresses the need for scalable and user-friendly watermarking solutions. The framework's APIs and dashboard make it easy for developers to integrate watermarking into their workflows, while the support for customizable strategies ensures flexibility. This approach has the potential to significantly increase the adoption of watermarking techniques, making it a strong candidate for a best paper award at top conferences.",
    "Keywords": [
        "watermarking as a service",
        "cloud-based framework",
        "machine-generated code",
        "scalability",
        "real-time detection",
        "customizable watermarking"
    ]
}