{
    "id": "670a5ab26e55391e8309cb596817723874170b2f",
    "title": "Plagiarism Declaration",
    "abstract": "Death distribution methods, particularly the Generalized Growth Balance (GGB) and the Synthetic Extinct Generations (SEG) methods, have been observed to lead to the most accurate estimates when estimating mortality [1]. The more general version of the SEG method corrects for differential coverage of censuses directly by adding a constant (6) to the age-specific growth rates such that the correction leads to a horizontal series of age specific estimates of completeness. This research attempts to obtain the best variation of this version of the SEG method from a range of choices for an open interval age as well as well as methods of estimating life expectancy. completeness and 6. This task is accomplished by starting with a base population with known mortality then applying random errors in completeness. age misstatement and net migration to it to generate numerous datasets consisting of simulated census counts and simulated vital registration deaths by age. Variations of the SEG method are then applied to the simulated datasets to correct for the underestimation of mortality caused by the data errors. The best variations are found by statistical analysis of the difference between the true mortality and the estimated mortality for each variation and dataset generated. Using the Coale and Demeny model life tables to estimate life expectancy. selecting the a that results in a minimum variance in the age specific estimates of completeness. estimating completeness using the median value of the age specific. estimates Of completeness for ages 15 and older and using the 85+ age group for the open interval is observed to be the variation of the SEG method that leads to the most accurate estimates of mortality. U ive rsi ty of Ca pe To wn Acknowledgements I would like to thank all people who have helped and inspired me during my masters study. I especially want to thank my advisor. Professor Rob Dorrington, for his guidance during my research and study at the University of Cape Town. His advice, support and direction in this research has been invaluable and I especially appreciate his being accessible and willing to help with this research. spurring me on even when work commitments were hindering my progress. Associate Professor Tom Moultrie deserves a special thanks as my student advisor and course convener. I would like to thank him for the help for the duration of the degree and for hiring me as a tutor for Basic Demography and Biostatistics for demographers. My deepest gratitude goes to my physical family for their unflagging love and support throughout my life: this dissertation is simply impossible without them. I am indebted to my mother. Mrs Helen Msemburi, for her care and love and to my three brothers: Leo, Tom and Andrew. Particularly Thomas who has supported and encouraged me every step of the way and has exemplified diligence and strength. I am also thankful to my spiritual family, His People (Baxter). Thank you to all my pastors and friends there. I extend my heartfelt appreciation to my dear lady Hilda. my closest friend and my treasure in this world. Her love and support have been an anchor in the most trying storms. Love you lots my girl, both now and always. The generous support from the Mellon fund is greatly appreciated. Without their support, my ambition to pursue this M Phil would not have been realized. Last but not least, thanks be to God for my life through all tests and victories in the past six years. My Father, my Savior, my Lord. You have made my life more bountiful. May your name be exalted. honored. and glorified. iii Un ive rsi ty of Ca pe To wn"
}