{
    "id": "80efa5e0dc8bbe34a6b4339348be487bcd06a2fb",
    "title": "RecSSD: Near Data Processing for Solid State Drive Based Recommendation Inference Extended Abstract",
    "abstract": "Recommendation algorithms are used across a variety of Internet services such as social media, entertainment, e-commerce, and search [9, 18, 6, 20, 19, 15]. Deep learning based recommendation models consume a significant portion of datacenter capacity and compute cycles. Compared to other AI-driven applications, recommendation accounts for 10\u00d7 the capacity in Facebook\u2019s datacenter [9, 13]. Similar capacity requirements can be found across Google, Alibaba, Baidu, and Amazon [18, 20, 19]. One of the key distinguishing features of recommendation models is processing categorical input features using embedding tables. Categorical inputs are processed in two steps: (1) multi-hot encoded vectors are used to gather specific rows within an embedding table, and (2) the indexed rows produce embedding vectors which are aggregated, subsequently. These embedding table operations transform large, highly sparse categorical input features into low-dimensional vectors. Larger embeddings better capture the distribution of categorical features. For instance, in Baidu\u2019s recommendation system, an order of magnitude increase in the embedding table size translates into a significant 2% accuracy gain [4]. Because of these accuracy incentives, the size of state-of-the-art deep learning recommendation models has grown dramatically, from a few tens of GBs to the TB region [12, 9, 14, 16, 17, 18]. In fact, in many cases, the size of recommendation models is set by the amount of memory available on servers. Unfortunately, fast and high-capacity DDR-based main memory incurs heavy infrastructure cost in datacenters [3]. A promising alternative is to store embedding tables in SSDs. While offering orders of magnitude higher storage density than main memory, SSDs exhibit slower read and write performance. The read bandwidth of SSD is on the order of 1-3 GB/s, 25\u00d7 worse than DRAM (e.g., 75 GB/s). Though SSDs can accommodate the growing capacity demand of recommendation, the much lower bandwidth and longer latency as compared to DRAM main memory systems threaten the viability of SSDs. This paper proposes RecSSD to tackle these challenges and provide high capacity storage while maintaining performance, with specialized Near-Data-Processing (NDP) hardware to optimize SSD performance. 2. Limitations of the State of the Art"
}