{
    "id": "aea35128e08c89f2087eefdafd1fde049fcf9593",
    "title": "THREE-DIMENSIONAL EXAMINATION AND GUIDANCE STRATEGIES OF ONLINE BEHAVIOR OF \u201cPOST-00S\u201d COLLEGE STUDENTS IN CHINA",
    "abstract": "The purpose of this work is to elucidate the intergenerational characteristics of online behaviors of Chinese \u201cpost-00s\u201d college students, which contain positive and negative factors. To this end, we endeavor to explicate their online behaviors through an empirical viewpoint and a comparative analysis approach. The present paper will outline the intergenerational characteristics of online behaviors from tripartite perspective. First of all, in terms of online social behavior, it evinves the coexistence of diversification and circle stratification, thereby blocking mainstream discourse from intervening. Secondly, in terms of online entertainment behavior, it has increasingly become fanatical and dramatic, impeding the dissemination of mainstream values. Lastly, regarding online learning behavior, it is progressively self-reliant and reciprocal, gradually diminishing intergenerational emotional dependency and shaking the dominant position of mainstream ideology. The dichotomy of their online behaviors is likely to result in the predicament of online behavior anomie, posing challenges to the efficacy of moral education in Chinese tertiary institutions. Confined from the perspective of moral education, to effectively avert the anomie of online behavior among Chinese \u201cpost-00\u201d college students, this manuscript will proffer three measures to bolster the efficacy of moral education in Chinese tertiary institutions. One is to augment mainstream discourse intervention and advance online media literacy education. The second is to facilitate the propagation of mainstream values and refine the digital ecosystem. The third pertains to the modernization of moral education\u2019s narrative and spatial structure, culminating in the elevation of mainstream ideology\u2019s prestige."
}