{
    "Title": "Dynamic Format-Following Benchmark (DFB): Evaluating LLMs in Real-World, Evolving Scenarios",
    "Idea": "The Dynamic Format-Following Benchmark (DFB) is a novel benchmark designed to evaluate LLMs' ability to follow complex, domain-specific formats in real-world, evolving scenarios. Unlike static benchmarks like FoFo, DFB introduces dynamic elements such as changing formats, real-time updates, and multi-modal inputs (e.g., text, images, and audio). The benchmark will include tasks where the format evolves during the task, requiring LLMs to adapt on-the-fly. For example, in a medical domain, the format for a patient report might change based on new lab results or updated guidelines. DFB will also incorporate feedback loops, where the LLM's output is evaluated and used to refine the format in subsequent tasks. This benchmark will be developed using a combination of AI-human collaboration and synthetic data generation, ensuring a diverse range of formats and scenarios. The evaluation will focus on both the accuracy of format adherence and the LLM's ability to adapt to changes in real-time.",
    "Thinking": "This idea is inspired by Kuhn’s paradigm theory and Laudan’s problem-solving model, which emphasize the need to identify and address anomalies in existing theories and methods. The current FoFo benchmark is static and does not account for the dynamic nature of real-world formats. By proposing a dynamic benchmark, we address a significant gap in LLM evaluation and push the field towards more realistic and challenging scenarios. The idea also leverages Laudan’s methodological improvement model by integrating new technologies (e.g., multi-modal inputs) and improving experimental design (e.g., feedback loops).",
    "Rationale": "The rationale for this idea is that real-world applications of LLMs often involve dynamic and evolving formats, which current benchmarks do not adequately capture. For example, in healthcare, legal, or financial domains, formats for reports, contracts, or transactions can change frequently due to new regulations, guidelines, or data. A benchmark that evaluates LLMs' ability to adapt to these changes is crucial for ensuring their practical utility. DFB will provide a more comprehensive evaluation of LLMs' format-following capabilities, leading to better models that can handle real-world complexity. This idea has the potential to win best paper awards because it addresses a critical gap in LLM evaluation, proposes an innovative solution, and has broad applicability across various domains."
}