{
    "Title": "Explainable Format-Following: A Framework for Understanding LLMs' Format Adherence",
    "Idea": "This idea proposes a new framework called Explainable Format-Following (EFF), which aims to make LLMs' format-following decisions more transparent and interpretable. The framework will include a set of tools and metrics for analyzing how LLMs adhere to formats, including attention maps, decision trees, and format similarity scores. The framework will also include a human-in-the-loop component, where human annotators provide feedback on the LLM's format-following decisions, which is then used to refine the model. The EFF framework will be integrated with existing LLM architectures, such as GPT-4 and Llama 2, and will be evaluated on a diverse set of domain-specific formats. The evaluation will focus on both the accuracy of format adherence and the interpretability of the LLM's decisions.",
    "Thinking": "This idea is inspired by Kuhn’s theory of scientific revolutions and Toulmin’s model of conceptual evolution, which emphasize the importance of transparency and interpretability in scientific models. By proposing a framework for explainable format-following, we address a significant gap in current LLM evaluation, which often focuses on performance metrics without considering interpretability. The idea also leverages Laudan’s methodological improvement model by integrating new technologies (e.g., attention maps) and improving experimental design (e.g., human-in-the-loop feedback).",
    "Rationale": "The rationale for this idea is that interpretability is crucial for ensuring the trustworthiness and reliability of LLMs, especially in high-stakes domains like healthcare and law. A framework that makes LLMs' format-following decisions more transparent will help users understand and trust the model's outputs, leading to better adoption and practical utility. EFF will provide a more comprehensive evaluation of LLMs' format-following capabilities, leading to better models that are both accurate and interpretable. This idea has the potential to win best paper awards because it addresses a critical gap in LLM evaluation, proposes an innovative solution, and has broad applicability across various domains."
}