{
    "Title": "Cross-Domain Format Transfer: Evaluating LLMs' Ability to Generalize Across Different Formats",
    "Idea": "This idea proposes a new benchmark called Cross-Domain Format Transfer (CDFT), which evaluates LLMs' ability to generalize format-following skills across different domains. The benchmark will include tasks where the LLM is trained on formats from one domain (e.g., healthcare) and then tested on formats from another domain (e.g., legal). The tasks will be designed to assess both the LLM's ability to recognize and adapt to new formats, as well as its ability to transfer knowledge from one domain to another. The benchmark will include a diverse set of formats, ranging from simple (e.g., email templates) to complex (e.g., legal contracts). The evaluation will focus on the LLM's accuracy in following the new formats, as well as its ability to maintain coherence and relevance in its responses. The benchmark will be developed using a combination of real-world data and synthetic data generation, ensuring a wide range of formats and domains.",
    "Thinking": "This idea is inspired by Quine’s holism and Kitcher’s unified theory of science, which emphasize the importance of understanding how different parts of a system interact and influence each other. By evaluating LLMs' ability to generalize across domains, we address a significant gap in current benchmarks, which typically focus on single-domain performance. The idea also leverages Laudan’s methodological improvement model by improving experimental design (e.g., cross-domain tasks) and developing new data analysis methods (e.g., transfer learning metrics).",
    "Rationale": "The rationale for this idea is that real-world applications of LLMs often require them to operate across multiple domains, where formats can vary significantly. For example, an AI assistant in a corporate setting might need to generate emails, reports, and contracts, each with different formats. A benchmark that evaluates LLMs' ability to generalize across domains is crucial for ensuring their practical utility. CDFT will provide a more comprehensive evaluation of LLMs' format-following capabilities, leading to better models that can handle cross-domain tasks. This idea has the potential to win best paper awards because it addresses a critical gap in LLM evaluation, proposes an innovative solution, and has broad applicability across various domains."
}