{
    "id": "53e95be7ca51fc6dada43fb57d4099f202e02936",
    "title": "Flattening the Curve of the COVID-19 Infodemic: These Evaluation Campaigns Can Help!",
    "abstract": "The World Health Organization acknowledged that \u201cThe 2019-nCoV outbreak and response has been accompanied by a massive \u2018infodemic\u2019 ... that makes it hard for people to find trustworthy sources and reliable guidance when they need it.\u201d While fighting this infodemic is typically thought of in terms of factuality, the problem is much broader as malicious content includes not only \u201cfake news\u201d, rumors, and conspiracy theories, but also promotion of fake cures, panic, racism, xenophobia, and mistrust in the authorities, among others. Thus, we argue for the need of a holistic approach combining the perspectives of journalists, fact-checkers, policymakers, social media platforms, and society as a whole, and we present our initial work in this direction. We further discuss evaluation campaigns at CLEF and SemEval that feature relevant tasks (not necessarily focusing on COVID-19). One relevant evaluation campaign is the CLEF CheckThat! Lab, which has focused on tasks that make human fact-checkers more productive: spotting check-worthy claims (in tweets, political debates, and speeches), determining whether these claims have been previously factchecked, retrieving relevant pages and passages, and finally, making a prediction about the factuality of the claims. There have been also a number of relevant SemEval tasks related to factuality, e.g., on rumor detection and verification in social media, on fact-checking in community question answering forums, and on stance detection. Other relevant SemEval tasks have looked beyond factuality, focusing on intent, e.g., on offensive language detection in social media, as well as on spotting the use of propaganda techniques (e.g., appeal to emotions, fear, prejudices, logical fallacies, etc.) in the news and in memes (text + image). Of course, relevant tasks can be also found beyond CLEF and SemEval; most notably, this includes FEVER and the Fake News Challenge. Finally, we demonstrate two systems developed at the Qatar Computing Research Institute, HBKU, to address some of the above challenges: one reflecting the proposed holistic approach, and one on fine-grained propagada detection. The latter system, Prta (https://www.tanbih.org/prta), was featured at ACL-2020 with a Best Demo Award (Honorable Mention)."
}