{
    "id": "969e820c894fb2ca2579f8e80f72b6dfb99b8a7c",
    "title": "Workshop on Multiword Expressions: from Theory to Applications (mwe 2010) Computational Lexicography of Multi-word Units. How Efficient Can It Be? Automatic Extraction of Arabic Multiword Expressions Automatic Extraction of Complex Predicates in Bengali Handling Named Entities and Compound Verbs in ",
    "abstract": "The workshop has been held every year since 2003 in conjunction with ACL, EACL and LREC; this is the first time that it has been co-located with COLING. Multiword Expressions (MWEs) are a ubiquitous component of natural languages and appear steadily on a daily basis, both in specialized and in general-purpose communication. While easily mastered by native speakers, their interpretation poses a major challenge for automated analysis due to their flexible and heterogeneous nature. Therefore, the automated processing of MWEs is desirable for any natural language application that involves some degree of semantic interpretation, e.g. In spite of the recent advances in the field, there is a wide range of open problems that prevent MWE treatment techniques from full integration in current NLP systems. In MWE'2010, we were interested in major challenges in the overall process of MWE treatment. We thus asked for original research related but not limited to the following topics: \u2022 MWE resources: Although underused in most current state-of-the-art approaches, resources are key for developing real-world applications capable of interpreting MWEs. We thus encouraged submissions describing the process of building MWE resources, constructed both manually and automatically from text corpora; we were also interested in assessing the usability of such resources in various MWE tasks. \u2022 Hybrid approaches: We further invited research on integrating heterogeneous MWE treatment techniques and resources in NLP applications. Such hybrid approaches can aim, for example, at the combination of results from symbolic and statistical approaches, at the fusion of manually built and automatically extracted resources, or at the design of language learning techniques. \u2022 Domain adaptation: Real-world NLP applications need to be robust to deal with texts coming from different domains. Thus, its is important to assess the performance of MWE methods across domains or describing domain adaptation techniques for MWEs. \u2022 Multilingualism: Parallel and comparable corpora are gaining popularity as a resource for automatic MWE discovery and treatment. We were thus interested in the integration of MWE processing in multilingual applications such as machine translation and multilingual information retrieval, as well as in porting existing monolingual MWE approaches to new languages. We received 18 submissions, and, given our limited capacity as a one-day workshop, we were only able to accept eight full papers for oral presentation: an acceptance rate of 44%. We further accepted four papers as posters. The regular papers were distributed in three sessions: Lexical Representation, Identification and Extraction, \u2026"
}