{
    "id": "51db583f89e0191c7ebf3fe212c5271c98b33c6b",
    "title": "Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing Proceedings of the Fourth International Workshop on Natural Language Processing for Social Media Socialnlp@emnlp2016 Chairs' Welcome Identifying and Categorizing Disaster-related Tweets Why Do They Leave: Modeling Participation in Online",
    "abstract": "It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the Fourth ACM Workshop on Natural Language Processing for SocialMedia \u2013 SocialNLP'16, associated with EMNLP 2016. SocialNLP is an inter-disciplinary area of natural language processing (NLP) and social computing. We hold SocialNLP twice a year: one in the NLP venue, the other in the associated venue such as those for web technology or artificial intelligence. There are three plausible directions of SocialNLP: (1) addressing issues in social computing using NLP techniques; (2) solving NLP problems using information from social media; and (3) handling new problems related to both social computing and natural language processing. Through this workshop, we anticipate to provide a platform for research outcome presentation and head-to-head discussion in the area of SocialNLP, with the hope to combine the insight and experience of prominent researchers from both NLP and social computing domains to contribute to the area of SocialNLP jointly. The submissions to this year's workshop were again of high quality and we had a competitive selection process. We received 32 submissions from Asia, Europe, and the United States, and due to a rigorous review process, we only accepted 6 as long oral papers and 7 as short oral papers. Thus the acceptance rate was 40 percent. We are delighted to have Prof. Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil, from Cornell University, as our keynote speaker. We also encourage attendees to attend the keynote talk presentation. The valuable and insightful talk can and will guide us to a better understanding of the future. Putting together SocialNLP 2016 was a team effort. We first thank the authors for providing the quality content of the program. We are grateful to the program committee members, who worked very hard in reviewing papers and providing feedback for authors. Finally, we especially thank the Workshop Committee Chairs Prof. We hope you join our community and enjoy the workshop! Abstract This paper presents a system for classifying disaster-related tweets. The focus is on Twit-ter data generated before, during, and after Hurricane Sandy, which impacted New York in the fall of 2012. We propose an annotation schema for identifying relevant tweets as well as the more fine-grained categories they represent , and develop feature-rich classifiers for relevance and fine-grained categorization."
}