{
    "id": "7ca20c249f3073e6aaeeadffc54f86dcc198e190",
    "title": "Mapping the echo-chamber: detecting and characterizing partisan networks on Twitter.",
    "abstract": "The phrase \u201cecho-chamber effect\u201d has been widely used to describe the way modern media, especially social networks, have reshaped political discourse. Instead of diversifying the political landscape, modern media is blamed for facilitating the formation of like-minded cliques that have little exposure to alternative opinions. This phenomenon has been studied prior to the rise of social networks. For instance, Gilbert et al. [4] showed that the majority of comments posted on blogs tended to agree with the content of the blog post. Social networks only seem to have aggravated the problem. A study by the think tank Demos showed that politically vocal accounts on Twitter largely interacted with like-minded accounts, and shared content from domains that were agreeable to their party [10]. Benkler et al. [1] showed that link-sharing behavior reflected a polarization of political debates during the 2016 presidential elections in the U.S. They also argued that there were differences between the way rightand left-wing media motivated discussions on Twitter and Facebook. Partisan networks are often oblivious to, or openly hostile towards, alternative perspectives. This renders them prone to spreading misinformation. The guarded nature of the networks helps sustain the propagation of false rumors even after they have been debunked by authoritative sources [14, 15], or even when the rumors\u2019 initiators admit to their mistake [12]. They are also susceptible to deliberate attempts by fake news websites, professional trolls and bots who spread misinformation [5, 16]. Identifying such networks can help researchers and analysts locate potential sources of false rumors and conspiracy theories. Studying these networks can also uncover the dynamics of the evolution and operation of the so-called professional fake news industry [6, 3]."
}