{
    "id": "c188274e2caaa726a86154292ec49727df6d5ca2",
    "title": "Learning Dual-view User Representations for Enhanced Sequential Recommendation",
    "abstract": "Sequential recommendation (SR) aims to predict a user\u2019s next interacted item given his/her historical interactions. Most existing sequential recommendation systems model user preferences only with item-level representations, where a user\u2019s interaction sequence are often modeled with sequential or graph-based method to infer the user\u2019s sequential interaction pattern. However, since a user\u2019s preference factors may vary over time, the user modeling on item-level could hardly represent the user\u2019s preference precisely and sufficiently, resulting in suboptimal recommendation performance. In addition, the recommendation results based on the item-level user representations lack the interpretability of preference factors. To address these problems, we propose a novel SR model with dual-view user representations in this article, namely DUVRec, where a user\u2019s preference is learned based on the representations of two distinct views, i.e., item view and factor view. Specifically, the item-view user representation is learned as the previous SR models to encode the user preference of item level, while the factor-view user representation is learned by an coarse-grained graph embedding method to explicitly represent the user in terms of preference factors. As a result, such dual-view user representations are more comprehensive than that in the previous SR models, leading to enhanced SR performance. Furthermore, we design a contrastive learning strategy to achieve mutual complementation between these two views. Our extensive experiments upon three benchmark datasets justify DUVRec\u2019s superior performance over the state-of-the-art SR models, including the advantage of the dual-view contrastive learning. In addition, DUVRec\u2019s capability of providing explanations on recommendation results is also demonstrated through some specific case studies."
}