{
    "id": "6e7303ffd0843a776408be16676ee1f93cf3feb6",
    "title": "Learning Semantic Representations from Directed Social Links to Tag Microblog Users at Scale",
    "abstract": "This article presents a network embedding approach to automatically generate tags for microblog users. Instead of using text data, we aim to annotate microblog users with meaningful tags by leveraging rich social link data. To utilize directed social links, we use two kinds of node representations for modeling user interest in terms of their followers and followees, respectively. To alleviate the sparsity problem, we propose a novel method based on two transformation functions for capturing implicit interest similarity. Different from previous works on capturing high-order proximity, our model is able to directly characterize the effect of the context user on the proximity of node pairs. Another novelty of our model is that the importance scores of users learned from the classic PageRank algorithm are utilized to set the link weights. By using such weights, our model is more capable of disentangling the interest similarity evidence of a link. We jointly consider the above factors when designing the final objective function. We construct a very large evaluation set consisting of 2.6M users, 0.5M tags, and 0.8B following links. To our knowledge, it is the largest reported dataset for microblog user tagging in the literature. Extensive experiments on this dataset demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach. We implement this approach with several optimization techniques, which makes our model easy to scale to very large social networks. Ubiquitous social links provide important data resources to understand user interests. Our work provides an effective and efficient solution to annotate user interests solely using the link data, which has important practical value in industry. To illustrate the use of our models, we implement a demonstration system for visualizing, navigating, and searching microblog users."
}