{
    "id": "ce3b53e30ff38fcc165bb055dd017ae377476b85",
    "title": "Representation and Understanding Workshop of the 33 rd Annual International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval Organized by",
    "abstract": "Preface Understanding the user's intent or information need that underlies a query has long been recognized as a crucial part of effective information retrieval. Despite this, retrieval models, in general, have not focused on explicitly representing intent, and query processing has been limited to simple transformations such as stemming or spelling correction. With the recent availability of large amounts of data about user behavior and queries in web search logs, there has been an upsurge in interest in new approaches to query understanding and representing intent. This workshop has the goal of bringing together the different strands of research on query understanding, increasing the dialogue between researchers working in this relatively new area, and developing some common themes and directions, including definitions of tasks and evaluation methodology. We hope the workshop could bring together researchers from IR, ML, NLP, and other areas of computer and information science who are working on or interested in this area, and provide a forum for them to identify the issues and the challenges, to share their latest research results, to express a diverse range of opinions about this topic, and to discuss future directions. The workshop program includes three main sessions: invited talks, poster session and panel discussion. Ten short invited talks by both academic and industrial researchers will give the participants a sense of different aspects of query understanding, and what are the current state of the art results in this research area. In the poster session, eight accepted papers will be presented in a form of \"elevator pitch\" plus printed poster. The panel discussion will focus on the issues related to query representation and understanding research, including a rigorous definition of the task, modeling for the task, challenges and opportunities, implications to IR, and future research directions. We would like to thank the program committee members for the great efforts in reviewing all the submissions, the SIGIR 2010 committee for their support, and all the authors for their contributions. Abstract: Query is often treated as a bag of words by search engines, but when people are formulating queries, they use \" concepts \" as building blocks. Can we automatically segment the query to recover the concepts? How can we use the identified concepts to improve search relevance? In this talk, I will present some techniques to some techniques for query concept identification and how can we use them to improve search relevance \u2026"
}