{
    "id": "b854e3c44b71ff4d4d46f215dce2b4045e269f5c",
    "title": "Random Walks for Text Semantic Similarity Wikiwalk: Random Walks on Wikipedia for Semantic Relatedness Measuring Semantic Relatedness with Vector Space Models and Random Walks Ranking and Semi-supervised Classification on Large Scale Graphs Using Map-reduce Opinion Graphs for Polarity and Discourse ",
    "abstract": "Order copies of this and other ACL proceedings from: ii Introduction The last few years have shown a steady increase in applying graph-theoretic models to computational linguistics. In many NLP applications, entities can be naturally represented as nodes in a graph and relations between them can be represented as edges. There have been extensive research showing that graph-based representations of linguistic units such as words, sentences and documents give rise to novel and efficient solutions in a variety of NLP tasks, ranging from part-of-speech tagging, word sense disambiguation and parsing, to information extraction, semantic role labeling, summarization, and sentiment analysis. More recently, complex network theory, a popular modeling paradigm in statistical mechanics and physics of complex systems, was proven to be a promising tool in understanding the structure and dynamics of languages. Complex network based models have been applied to areas as diverse as language evolution, acquisition, historical linguistics, mining and analyzing the social networks of blogs and emails, link analysis and information retrieval, information extraction, and representation of the mental lexicon. In order to make this field of research more visible, this time the workshop incorporated a special theme on Cognitive and Social Dynamics of Languages in the framework of Complex Networks. Cognitive dynamics of languages include topics focused primarily on language acquisition, which can be extended to language change (historical linguistics) and language evolution as well. Since the latter phenomena are also governed by social factors, we can further classify them under social dynamics of languages. In addition, social dynamics of languages also include topics such as mining the social networks of blogs and emails. A collection of articles pertaining to this special theme will be compiled in a special issue of the Computer Speech and Language journal. Being the fourth workshop on this topic, we were able to build on the success of the previous TextGraphs workshops, held as part of HLT-NAACL 2006, HLT-NAACL 2007 and Coling 2008. It aimed at bringing together researchers working on problems related to the use of graph-based algorithms for NLP and on pure graph-theoretic methods, as well as those applying complex networks for explaining language dynamics. Like last year, TextGraphs-4 has also been endorsed by SIGLEX. We issued calls for both regular and short papers. Nine regular and three short papers were accepted for presentation, based on the careful reviews of our program committee. Our sincere thanks to all the program \u2026"
}