{
    "id": "b47049c76ee86ee5df4157c068afcc51caef4691",
    "title": "Towards authenticated and private computer and wireless communications",
    "abstract": "In the first part of the dissertation, we investigate the problem of message authentication when the privacy of the message is also required. First, we show that there is a redundancy in the computations performed by the authentication and encryption primitives and show how to remove such redundancy to improve the overall efficiency. Then, we propose a new security model that captures essential differences between standard authentication algorithms and those coupled with encryption algorithms to compose an authenticated encryption scheme. We use the new model to design the first secure keyless message authentication algorithm in the literature. Furthermore, we utilize the underlying encryption to propose the first secure authentication technique in which only a small portion of the message needs to be processed, without affecting the integrity of the entire message. Lastly, we investigate the security of authentication based on universal hash-function families with computations performed over integer rings; we show that the probability of successful forgery is proportional to the reciprocal of the smallest prime factor of the used modulus. \nIn the second part, we shift the attention to radio frequency identification (RFID) systems. We propose the first authentication protocol for RFID systems that can be proven information-theoretically secure, given a reasonable relaxation of the adversary's capabilities. Then, we propose techniques that are designed specifically to take advantage of the fact that exchanged messages in RFID systems are short strings to authenticate them efficiently. Lastly, we investigate the problem of efficient identification and propose the first privacy-preserving protocol that can identify encrypted identifiers in constant-time. \nIn the third part, we investigate the problem of preserving source location privacy in wireless sensor networks (WSNs). We propose a new framework for modeling, analyzing, and designing anonymous sensor networks. We use the proposed framework to map the problem of statistical source anonymity to the classic binary hypothesis testing with nuisance parameters. We show that with the appropriate data transformation, contrary to the current belief, existing statistical solutions can reveal critical information about the locations of reported events. We then investigate a new approach to improve the anonymity of existing statistical solutions."
}