{
    "id": "eb12aa3666c9b4da1458eeb840a694bac416af34",
    "title": "Efficient Learning of Statistical Relational Models",
    "abstract": "i To Aai and Baba ii First and foremost, I would like to thank my advisor, Jude Shavlik, for mentoring and supporting me throughout my PhD. His guidance during my graduate career has been invaluable and helped me immensely to improve my technical knowledge and communication skills. I have learned a lot about my field as well as machine learning, in general, for which I will always be thankful. I would also like to thank my co-advisor, Sriraam Natarajan, for patiently guiding me through my graduate career. His vast knowledge about the field has always inspired me to keep reading. He has been my friend and mentor, shaping me into the researcher I am today. I would like to thank my committee members: David Page, AnHai Doan and Mark Craven for their inputs on my work. My first machine learning course was under David Page, which inspired my interest in first-order logic and eventually led to my work. I have learned a lot about various topics from my committee members through our discussions. I want to thank them for their feedback and providing a new perspective on my work. My collaborators have made all of the work presented in this thesis possible and for that I am very thankful. The one collaborator who has been most influential and essential for my research is Kristian Kersting. Through many of our discussions in conferences and conference calls, I have learned a lot about the field, but more importantly about how to critically analyze problems and potential solutions. I would also like to thank Chris R\u00e9 for guiding and helping me through the problems with scaling our approaches, especially for the large-scale information-extraction task. His guidance during my prelims also helped forge the direction of my research in the final years. Although not directly involved in my graduate career, I want to thank Dr. Hemalatha Thiagarajan of NIT iii Trichy for challenging me and inspiring me during my undergraduate career, which led me to pursue my PhD. I am thankful to the smart people from the Machine Learning group in University of Wisconsin-Madison. Specifically, I want to thank my office mate, Gautam Kunapuli for the great technical discussions (and non-technical too). I would like to thank my friends in Madison, especially Mohit Saxena and Sabareesh Subramaniam, for supporting me during my graduate career. I am also grateful to my two room mates, Balaji \u2026"
}