{
    "Title": "CodeScope-X: A Multimodal Benchmark for Evaluating LLMs in Code Understanding and Generation with Visual and Textual Contexts",
    "Idea": "CodeScope-X introduces a multimodal benchmark that evaluates LLMs not only on textual code but also on visual representations of code, such as flowcharts, UML diagrams, and other graphical models. This benchmark challenges LLMs to understand and generate code based on both textual and visual inputs, simulating real-world scenarios where developers often work with multiple representations of code. The benchmark includes tasks that require LLMs to translate between visual and textual representations, generate code from visual inputs, and explain code using visual aids. CodeScope-X also incorporates a novel 'contextual understanding' metric that evaluates how well LLMs can integrate information from both modalities to produce accurate and coherent outputs.",
    "Thinking": "This idea is inspired by the 'Define New Scientific Problems' theory, which encourages the exploration of new problems by integrating interdisciplinary knowledge. By combining visual and textual contexts, CodeScope-X addresses a gap in current benchmarks, which primarily focus on textual code. The idea also aligns with the 'Construct and Modify Theoretical Models' theory, as it requires the development of new models that can handle multimodal inputs. The potential impact of this idea lies in its ability to push LLMs beyond textual understanding and generation, enabling them to tackle more complex and realistic coding tasks that involve multiple representations of code.",
    "Rationale": "In real-world software development, developers often work with both textual and visual representations of code. However, current benchmarks do not evaluate LLMs' ability to understand and generate code in such multimodal contexts. CodeScope-X addresses this gap by introducing a benchmark that challenges LLMs to integrate information from both textual and visual inputs. This not only provides a more comprehensive evaluation of LLM capabilities but also opens up new research directions in multimodal code understanding and generation. By incorporating a 'contextual understanding' metric, CodeScope-X ensures that LLMs are evaluated on their ability to produce coherent and accurate outputs based on multimodal inputs.",
    "Keywords": [
        "multimodal benchmarking",
        "visual code understanding",
        "textual code generation",
        "UML diagrams",
        "flowcharts",
        "contextual understanding",
        "interdisciplinary integration"
    ]
}